

=== PAGE 81 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 63
U.S. bond contract. Notice that the Stochastic study has a more ragged appearance than
the MACD. The flowing lines of the MACD give us a smooth presentation of Trend.
This is what we want! The number of buy and sell signals given by the MACD are
infrequent compared to the Stochastic. By displaying these two indicators, one on top of
the other, in separate windows, as in Chart 5-6, I can evaluate when to fade (go against) a
market and when not to.
CHART 5-6
If both the Stochastic and the MACD are on a buy, the Trend is up. If the weak
Stochastic signals a sell, I can buy the dip associated with that sell, as long as the (strong)
MACD buy remains intact. Notice the solid up trend shown on the MACD between mid-
January and mid-February. We had an excellent buying opportunity against Fibonacci
support, as the weak Stochastic went into a sell, then got back in gear to the upside. The
same can be said on the sell side for the period from mid-November through mid-
December. What is more subtle but nonetheless opportune, is the MACD up trend to the
far left of the chart. While casual observation suggests that the Stochastic remained in an
up trend, real life trading was just the opposite! Why? During the period from mid-
October through the November high, there were many times when the Stochastic signaled
unconfirmed sells during the day. We can't see those sells by looking at this chart,
because the close of the day is the point at which the (confirmed) indicator is computed
and this is what we see on Chart 5-6 when we look back. Traders acting on those
unconfirmed intraday signals in real time, however, gave us an opportunity to go long
when they sold. We could then take profit at pre-calculated Fibonacci Logical Profit
Objectives when the Stochastic went back into the buy mode and their buy stops were hit!

=== PAGE 82 ===

64 DiNapoli Levels
By observing the combination signals on the most frequently used charts, i.e. 5, 30, and
60 minute, daily, weekly, and monthly, we can get a bird's eye view of where the weak
players are (Stochastic), as well as the position of the strong players (MACD). My aim is
to buy dips (Stochastic sells) at Fibonacci retracement points in an up trend (MACD buy),
or to sell rallies (Stochastic buys) at Fibonacci retracement points in a downtrend (MACD
sell). In this way, I combine Leading (Fibonacci) and Lagging (MACD/Stochastic)
Indicators, in such a way as to "safely" interact with price action. You should also note
that the traditional requirement for a Stochastic signal to be at the extremes of 25 or 75 is
ignored. Just like the MACD, / require only a crossover of the fast line through the slow
line for a signal.
Chart 5-7 shows a five minute S&P in a thrusting down move. It's difficult to see the
extent of the thrust, since the bars are confined to only one third of the chart. This was
done so I could show you the action of the MACD and Stochastic. Initially, both
indicators are signaling a sell. An interim price low is reached and the Stochastic goes into
the buy mode. It is bringing in the weak longs and getting rid of the weak shorts. The
down trend, as defined by the MACD, remains intact. Observing this type of action will
show you how trailing stops set in improper areas give knowledgeable players a perfect
opportunity to take away positions from weak players, i.e. to buy a dip or sell a rally in the
direction of the prevailing Trend. Chart 5-7 shows how the buy stops are hit, driving the
market up to Fibnode resistance. After the up move, the Stochastic gets back in line with
the MACD and the market returns to its previous direction, perhaps to new lows. This
type of action is repeated again and again in a variety of Time Frame charts. Just be sure
you are involved in thrusting markets in order to help avoid possible whipsaws.

=== PAGE 83 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 65
CHART 5-7
In teaching the use of this MACD/Stochastic combination signal, I typically break it up
into levels of complexity and teach up to the level possible, depending upon the
presentation setting and the experience level of the students. The above explanation
involves level 1 (waiting for both indicators to agree before defining a Trend), and level 2
(the concept of fading the weak Stochastic indicator while positioning yourself in the
prevailing Trend). Later we will have examples of level 1 & 2 utilization of this technique.
Level 3 (anticipating or acting on an unconfirmed signal) will be discussed somewhat,
while level 4 involves sliding your Time Frame and is too complex a subject to be
adequately covered outside a classroom setting. To give you some idea, however, as in
the example above, the half hour Trend would typically be on a sell to further support our
Stochastic fade on the five minute chart. There will be more examples after we cover
Fibonacci analysis.
Now, let's drop back, and look at this from a different perspective. If you think about this
approach and consider the mathematics of the Stochastic, you will see how a market can
be made to turn. Consider a large local or, more likely, a group of locals who are short
the market. If they can hold prices at a given high for several bars (keep prices from going
higher), it will force the (weak) Stochastic to turn south. The weak longs start selling
their positions and weak shorts initiate new positions on the sell side. Now the locals (and
we) can buy those sell orders. The locals can take their several ticks profit while we can
position ourselves for the expected new high, or a move up to a Fibonacci expansion
Point. If we tried to buy stop the old highs instead of buying in on the dips, we would be

=== PAGE 84 ===

66 DiNapoli Levels
at a point of high market slippage. Upon being filled we would have to suffer through yet
another pullback, while the locals who have fed us the sell orders, endeavor to make a
profit. If we buy the Stochastic sell and the MACD ends up breaking (giving a sell as well
as the Stochastic), we know we're wrong and we take the next rally out. If we are
operating on a short term Time Frame and have adequate experience employing this
method, it is possible to break even, pick up a few ticks, or perhaps suffer only a few tick
loss, even when we are wrong!
CHART 5-8
Let's take a look at a relatively simple example on daily crude oil, Chart 5-8.
We obviously have a thrusting, up trending market as defined by the 3X3. If you played
this market primarily from the long side on the way up, you'd have done very well. You
would not have gotten into trouble by selling point Tl, or by buying points T2 or T3. You
wouldn't have made any of these trades, even though Trend rules learned previously
would have justified such a play. (We will discuss Directional Indicators which overrule
Trend in the next chapter. They would have you buying at Tl, and selling at T2 and T3,
which are all at near perfect Fibonacci retracement points. Pardon me for digressing, but a
quick look ahead is sometimes useful.) Now, back to the point.

=== PAGE 85 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 67
CHART 5-9
Chart 5-9 is the same daily crude oil chart depicted in Chart 5-8, with the MACD and
Stochastic indicators added.
The entire downtrend after the high was contained by the MACD. The rally up to
Fibonacci resistance at point T3, supported by the Stochastic, gave us a perfect
opportunity to get short.
The same can be said for the up move preceding the high. The up move was almost
totally contained by the MACD, while the Stochastic gave us ample opportunities to get
long when the market retraced.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Wouldn't it be better to have two strong Trend indicators, instead of one weak, and one
strong ?
No. The weak Stochastic shows the hand of the weak players. It can also show the
Strength of the market. If the Stochastic gives a sell and there's no discernible movement
down in price, watch out for a big move up!

=== PAGE 86 ===

68 DiNapoli Levels
Conservative Carl: Do you wait for the bar (time period) to close before making a
determination that the indicator has given a signal?
This question leads us into level 3 understanding. By definition, you want confirmation to
be certain of the signal. But, if you wait for confirmation, a significant part of the move
may be in place. By waiting, you are paying for insurance you may not need. Just as it is
acceptable to anticipate the DMA crossing of price, before the period closed, it is also
acceptable to anticipate these Trend signals, prior to the close of the period. Be sure you
get confirmation of what you have anticipated by the close, or get out immediately!
I 've always bought when I got a Stochastic buy. How can I now sell?
If you are going to be among the 5% to 15% winners, you will have to be open to
applying methods and procedures that are different from those of the masses. If it were as
easy to win as following a Stochastic crossover, where would all the losers come from to
pay the floor, as well as the off floor winners?
Hyper Hank: So I buy when I get a sell on the Stochastic and sell when I get a buy on the
Stochastic, right?
No, you fade the Stochastic in a thrusting market in the context of a Trend, supported by
the MACD. You don't simply BUY or SELL. Then you employ methods of entry,
covered in CHAPTERS 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13.
Why don't you use the 25/75 barriers before assessing a buy or sell signal on the
Stochastic?
Any crossing of the fast line through the slow line is considered a signal because of the
unique way I am using the indicator. It may also be useful for you to note that trading
experience (not formal computerized research) indicates that stronger signals, on both the
MACD and Stochastic, are typically given if there is a greater angle of attack at the point
of crossing. See Charts 5-10 A & B. The stronger appearance generally is indicative of
markets that are moving and turning, rather than consolidating.

=== PAGE 87 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 69
CHART 5-10 A & B
Diligent Dan: "In the first example of daily bonds (Chart 5-5), it looked like the MACD
barely gave a sell near the end of January and then got right back to the up side. Is there
some way we could have avoided being whipped as we saw this action unfold? "
Since this was a daily-based signal, it's likely I would have been whipped as you suggest.
It's unlikely I would have wanted to take home a position that was against the MACD.
There are, however, ways of avoiding being whipped under similar circumstances. If, for
example, the Fibonacci support levels have not been penetrated by price, you could have a
trading plan that would accommodate a minor break of the MACD. This would give the
MACD an opportunity to correct. I give myself this latitude if the MACD signal is of the
weaker variety, as in Chart 5-10B A minor break of the MACD on an intraday chart is
also easier to live with than a break on the daily, since you can find out quickly if the
position will hold on the anticipated Fibonacci retracement. You may choose not to allow
this much discretion in your trading plan, until you gain more experience working with the
concept.
SUMMARY:
Let's summarize the high points of our second Trend analysis tool, the MACD/Stochastic
combination.
• Both the MACD and Stochastic give Trend signals when the fast line penetrates the
slow line. These signals remain intact until another penetration occurs. The signal is
confirmed at the close of the period.

=== PAGE 88 ===

70 DiNapoli Levels
• The MACD/Stochastic combination is applicable for all Time Frames we use.
• The values I use for the MACD (DEMA) are .213, .108, .199.
• The values I use for the deliberately weakened Preferred Stochastic are 8, 3, 3.
• To get good results using these indicators, you need to investigate the formulas used to
create the studies involved as well as the method of programming the mathematical inputs
into these formulas. The graphics software used to display the charts should show
market-aligned bars, not time-aligned bars.
• By utilizing a specific weak Stochastic and a specific strong MACD, we are able to
make informed judgments about what the weak and strong players are doing.
Consequently we can determine how to best interact with price to achieve our goals.

=== PAGE 89 ===

CHAPTER
DIRECTIONAL INDICATORS9 POWER PATTERNS FOR HIGH PROBABILITY TRADING
SIGNALS
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
If you don't understand or remember the definition of DIRECTION, FAILURE, or
MOVEMENT, you'll make it a lot easier on yourself if you review these concepts in
CHAPTER 2, before going on.
A Directional Indicator is usually, but not always, a pattern of some kind. Certain of
these patterns are defined by the 3X3. Don't confuse the concept of trend with that of
direction, even though the 3X3 is used for trend delineation as well as the criteria for
certain of the Directional Indicators we will use. Directional Indicators are not Trend
Indicators, irrespective of how they are derived. If there is a conflict between what a
Trend Indicator and a Directional Indicator is telling you, follow the Directional Indicator.
Direction overrules Trend.
In recent years, a greater percentage of my trades have been based on Directional
Indicators rather than Trend Indicators. This is as much a reflection of my maturity as a
•trader, as it is my increased patience level. Perhaps philosophically speaking, those
aspects are one and the same. Directional Indicators require patience, as they must
manifest on their own, while a Trend can always be found. Directional Indicators are
typically very powerful and highly reliable. They are in keeping with my overall
philosophy:
LOSS OF OPPORTUNITY IS PREFERABLE TO LOSS OF CAPITAL!

=== PAGE 90 ===

72 DiNapoli Levels
THE "DOUBLE REPENETRATION SIGNAL" OR "DOUBLE REPO" FOR
SHORT
The following Chart 6-1 shows an idealized Double RePo. It has specific, identifiable
features.
1. The Double RePo signal bar must be preceded by a minimum of 8-10 periods of
thrusting market action; 15 or more is better. Just what constitutes thrust is far easier to
visualize than to define. This is good news, since it will make it tough for programmers to
specify. Therefore, it should continue to "work" for some time to come.
CHART 6-1

=== PAGE 91 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 73
2. After the up thrust, we need closes below, above, and again below the 3X3, before the
sell signal is given. The reverse is true for down thrust.
3. The top (or bottom) formed by the bars as specified in the chart shown, should be
reasonably close to one another.
4. The width of the top (or bottom) from the initial penetration to the subsequent
penetration (after the retracement) should not exceed 8-10 bars; three or four are much
better.
5. The signal remains intact until either a major Logical Profit Objective (to be defined
later) is achieved (point 'M' on the chart), or until the .618 retracement '*' from the
furthermost extreme of the consolidation area (after the second penetration) to the
furthermost extreme on the thrust, has been exceeded on close. When we get into
Fibonacci analysis, the last sentence will be easier to understand. In terms to be defined
later, you create a resistance series and look for the '*' retracement level to be exceeded
on close.
6. The periods I use for Double RePos are daily, weekly, and monthly, although many of
my clients have reported excellent results on 30 minute and hourly charts .
Let's review each of the criteria on this idealized chart, to be sure you understand the
criteria, before we get to actual market examples.
ITEM 1
Market action is in a thrusting up move, remaining (primarily but not necessarily) in an up
trend (above the 3X3 on close) for 13 periods.
ITEM 2
We finally achieve a close below, above, then below the 3X3, yielding the signal bar.
Note the circled closes. The second of the two is the signal bar.
ITEM 3
The tops formed by the highs of the consolidation area are acceptably close to one
another.
ITEM 4
The number of bars in between and including the two closings below the 3X3 are clearly
less than the maximum.

=== PAGE 92 ===

74 DiNapoli Levels
ITEM 5
The signal would be negated if the market closed back above the Fibonacci level shown as
'*', or if the market achieved the profit objective point 'M.' Neither situation has
occurred yet.
IMPORTANT POINTS TO NOTE:
The criteria as defined in Items 1 through 5 will clearly satisfy many of you, and utterly
disappoint some of you. The level of specificity as applied to the accompanying real
charts should be more than adequate for those of you who are psychologically suited to
judgmental trading techniques. I will endeavor to be as specific as possible with the
Double RePo as with all of the subsequent Directional Indicators. It's important for you
to note that just because the exact criteria are not met, it does not mean that the market
will not act as if the criteria have been met. See "Look-Alikes" later in this chapter. In
workshops, I sometimes refer to a Double RePo "look-alike" as one Double RePo not
being as "pretty" as another. A Double RePo does not need to be a Barbie doll to add
significant width to your wallet.
It's also important to note that a Double RePo on a weekly or monthly chart can be a
serious event. It can signal the termination of a major bull or bear run.

=== PAGE 93 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 75
Chart 6-1A shows typical market action after a Double RePo has occurred.
CHART 6-1A

=== PAGE 94 ===

76 DiNapoli Levels
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Haw did you come up with the signal?
Like all of the Directional Indicators in this chapter, the criteria were developed by my
personal experiences in trading, some of which were blistering events! When dramatic
price action occurred, I wanted to know why, and since I typically had my own, real
money riding on the event, I was a highly motivated researcher. When I thought I learned
something, I looked for the market to replicate the action again, and again, and again, and
that's right, again, before I would consider adding what I thought would qualify as a
directional signal to my trading arsenal. The standard of reliability was high, since my
trading action subsequent to its identification was immediate and strong. The Double
RePo signal was actually identified originally by me on the first chart shown in the series
of actual market examples, Chart 6-2. It has been an incredible trading resource since
1986!
Can you anticipate the close on a Double RePo and lake a position based on what might
happen?
Yes. If, for example, the price on the signal bar shown on the idealized chart is below the
3X3 but the market hasn't closed, it is okay to get short. You could even anticipate the
move through the 3X3 if your intraday trend signals, the MACD/Stochastic, were
convincing enough. As with any anticipated or unconfirmed signal, however, you say
adios to the trade if you lack confirmation at the close of the period.
Aren't you simply showing a double top?
No, I am defining a specific type of double top or bottom.
What markets does this signal work in?
All liquid markets. That includes stocks, mutual funds, and cash currencies. But, let's
exclude wheat and pork bellies to be on the safe side.
Do I take a signal on close and simply wait for a profit objective?
You can take a position on a confirmed or unconfirmed signal, but you have to be aware
of the "get out" point on the loss side as well as the anticipated profit. You can also apply
all the other aspects of trade entry we have yet to discuss. One way to approach trade
entry for multiple contract players would be to lay on some contracts unconfirmed, more
on a confirmed signal, and still more according to other criteria we have yet to discuss.

=== PAGE 95 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 77
What if we have a Double RePo and then close above the 3X3, but we do not exceed the
Fibonacci point marked '*'?
In the scenario you describe, the Double RePo signal has not been negated. Remember,
you not only need to exceed the Fib point at '*', but you must also do so on close for a
confirmed get out. As for the Trend confirmation up (confirmed by closing above the
3X3), you ignore it, since Direction overrules Trend.
What if you exceed point '*' on close then turn around and subsequently close back
below the 3X3?
At this point, you're probably unhappy and counting some losses. Triple RePos don't
exist in my trading plan in the overall "applicability" and "high reliability" sense that
Double RePos do. However, I have observed a number of instances where such market
action has occurred in U.S. bonds. The bond market has a nasty habit of doing this after
very extreme thrusting moves. I trade such action similarly to a Double RePo. This
would be classified as a "look-alike."
Why do you limit the periods you use to daily and longer ?
They are the most reliable. A number of my clients use intraday charts for the Double
RePo trade as well. If you want to see what one looks like, there's an example of a
Double RePo on a 30 minute S&P in CHAPTER 4, Chart 4-5.
Can you explain what is actually happening in the market that makes this signal work?
I can try. The day after day of thrusting moves demoralizes and panics the shorts. Longs
that have exited are pulling their hair out from feelings of greed. Most lack the ability to
get back on board. The first pull back is bought by these groups, while the second
pullback eventually turns into capitulation or even panic, if the preceding up move is
confined by the '*' Fibonacci barrier. The important point of this psychological discussion
of what's happening is understanding that the length of the initial thrust must not be
unduly consolidated by the width between the 1st and 2nd penetration of the 3X3. In
other words, 18 days of up thrust consolidated by six days is a lot "prettier" than eight
days of thrust consolidated by eight days. Too much consolidation works off the greed
and fear. We don't want that.

=== PAGE 96 ===

78 DiNapoli Levels
MARKET EXAMPLES:
Each of the following charts will attempt to identify and clarify the Double RePo
Directional (change) Indicator.
CHART 6-2
Chart 6-2 shows two Double RePo signals in the S&P, occurring in 1986. I had my
proverbial lunch handed to me just before the first signal. The locals in the S&P had their
lunch handed to them just after the second signal. We both learned something from the
experience. I learned about the Double RePo signal. The locals learned to keep their
hands in their pockets when the S&P freight train barreled through.
The second signal (on the sell side) is picture perfect. It was preceded by beautiful thrust,
had near equal tops, and the span between the first and second close below the 3X3 was
narrow.

=== PAGE 97 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 79
The first signal (on the buy side) certainly worked. The down thrust preceding it however,
was strong, but not as relentless as the up thrust that preceded the second signal. What
we prefer to see in terms of thrust is continued pressure, as in the idealized example,
rather than a single big move, consolidation, and another big move. While the levels of
the double bottom were acceptably close, they were not as "pretty" as the double tops
preceding the sell side signal. The span of days between the first and second closing
above the 3X3 was also a bit wide, given the extent and nature of the preceding down
thrust.
CHART 6-3
Chart 6-3 illustrates a perfect Double RePo right at the top of the weather market we
experienced in corn in 1988. For those of you who haven't been involved with weather
markets, they are among the most vicious of all markets. The dots on this chart do not
indicate illiquidity brought about by lack of interest; they are limit moves!

=== PAGE 98 ===

80 DiNapoli Levels
The next Chart, 6-4, shows weekly continuation data of corn, preceding and including the
crop shortage period in 1996. Note the clear Double RePo occurring near the $5.00 level.
How would you have liked to have been short a ten lot when that happened?
CHART 6-4
Realize that if you had a position on, it would have been in September Com, not on the
continuation chart. The Double RePo showed up there as well. The continuation chart
was necessary, however, because it presented you with a cleaner picture. This thinking is
similar to that used in an upcoming soybean meal trade, detailed in CHAPTER 15. In the
meal trade, I entered on July meal but the context was taken from the weekly continuation
chart.

=== PAGE 99 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 81
Next, we'll see daily soybeans (Chart 6-5) during and after the floods in 1993.
CHART 6-5

=== PAGE 100 ===

82 DiNapoli Levels
Just for a change of pace, let's see how this Directional Indicator works in the stock
market.
CHART 6-6
Microsoft (Chart 6-6) peaked at the introduction of Windows® 95 and made an almost
perfect Double RePo. From there, it fell to a precalculated Fibonacci profit objective.
Not only was this an opportunity to book weekly-based profits on the sell side, it was also
a time to get long on a monthly reaction to an ongoing up trend. It would not serve you
to skip ahead now, but some very interesting charts on Microsoft in the monthly time
frame are just ahead. For those of you who are still having trouble internalizing the
concepts of Time Frame, Trend, and Direction, these upcoming charts should be very
helpful.