

=== PAGE 141 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 123
STRATEGY 4:
CHAPTER 6 discussed the Directional Indicator called Stretch. It uses an Overbought/
Oversold maximum Oscillator level, in combination with a major Fibonacci resistance or
support area, to locate a trade entry range. This is Strategy 4. Admittedly, countering an
existing Trend can be risky. It is, nonetheless, worthwhile because the combined strength
of these two powerful indicators is substantial.
CHART 7-6
Since we haven't covered Fibonacci analysis yet, I will jump ahead a bit, with the
following explanation. I suggest that you reread this after completing CHAPTERS 8
through 11, if you don't understand it now. The example above, Chart 7-6, showing daily
bonds, was chosen for a couple of reasons. The cursor is placed on the initial Stretch sell.
From that point, price reacted down to Fibonacci support and then achieved a Logical
Profit Objective (COP) on the upside which was in Agreement with the .618 retracement
of the down move from A to B. This is the same Fibonacci Retracement area that helped
to give us the initial Stretch sell. To reiterate, if at approximately the same price of
maximum Overbought, you have a significant Fibonacci resistance area, act on this
combined level as an entry range to sell

=== PAGE 142 ===

124 DiNapoli Levels
IMPORTANT POINTS TO NOTE:
The initial Stretch sell gave us two hard down days. It was the setup signal for the break.
Do you realize how much you can make on a high probability break, where all the intraday
trends are in your favor and you can margin up on your selling? If you have high
confidence, you can pile up on size and walk away with the loot. You don't need a five
point down move to score big; what you do need is patience for the set up and confidence
in what is unfolding. In this case, the intraday down trend after the resistance was met,
would have supported an aggressive short position, all the way to a support level which
was measurable ahead of time by techniques covered in CHAPTERS 9 and 10 .
On the rally back to the marginal new high, we only managed to achieve a move back to
major Fibonacci resistance, as noted above. The Detrended Oscillator was still high and
you then had an opportunity for a second shot at the short side. When we determine
ahead of time, the level of Overbought or Oversold, corresponding to a given price level,
we can make an informed and confident decision about how we wish to handle a given
trade.
Every rose has its thorn, and stop placement, utilizing Stretch, can be prickly, since you
are countering an existing move. If, for example, your entry sell level was at
approximately the close minus MA maximum level, a safe stop may need to be placed at
the high minus MA maximum level or behind another, more distant Fibonacci area. I
never place money stops in the market. If a safe stop exceeds my money stop, I just
don't take the trade.
Since we're on the topic of Oscillators, now is a good time for a prohibition. Don't use an
Oscillator to price divergence as an entry technique, unless you have an excellent means of
filtering it. In our last example, there was a divergence signal that worked between the
initial high and the rally back high, but this is not a high probability signal. Even for the
best of Oscillators this can, and often does, spell disaster, particularly for the new
participant. Look back at Chart 7-2, as well as other charts contained herein. Price and
Oscillator divergences abound, and the market continues to stop out the divergence
players. Looking back in time, you're sure to find divergences that work, but when you're
going forward in time, as in real trading, the accuracy of this technique just isn't there.

=== PAGE 143 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 125
STRATEGY 5:
Special applications of the Detrended Oscillator to determine major Trend changes.
There are a variety of such applications. I'll offer one example. The idea behind this
strategy is that long term Detrended Oscillator breakouts can be more significant than long
term price breakouts. Look at Chart 7-7, monthly gold.
CHART 7-7
For the first time since the 1980 break in the gold market, we have an Oscillator reading,
monthly basis, which significantly surpassed previous peaks, corresponding to run ups in
price. I am not concerned with the divergence the Oscillator has made versus price, but
rather with the fact that the Oscillator value has surpassed its previous rally high after a
long move down. Note also that when we are measuring momentum in this context, we
use the high minus Moving Average or the low minus Moving Average, rather than the
close. This is because momentum in this context is attempting to measure the maximum
push behind the market, rather than its strength at a given point in time.

=== PAGE 144 ===

126 DiNapoli Levels
This indicates that the bear market in gold is over and that we are likely to be in for a
period of prolonged consolidation or an up move. To confirm this supposition we would
like to see the 47.71 level significantly surpassed in the next gold rally. It would also be
nice to see the pullback in gold contained in an ascending pattern. So far this has not
occurred.
I've alluded to volatility breakout techniques in CHAPTER 1 and under Strategy 2, in this
chapter. The idea behind the success of such methods is that volatility peaks precede price
peaks and there is validity in this reasoning. The gold example is really a variation of this.
While I will not endeavor to cover fully the details of how I handle extremes in volatility, I
will make the following comments so you can understand my general approach. First, you
don't know you have an extreme (let's say twice average Overbought or Oversold) until
after the fact, so I prefer to take my profits as I near Overbought or Oversold, as stated
earlier. When, in hindsight, I see a true breakout in volatility, I employ the techniques in
CHAPTERS 9, 10, 11, and 13, to enter in the Direction of the breakout. Second, I attempt
to filter any such breakout to eliminate blowoffs which will produce amazing volatility
breakouts but by definition, the termination of any extreme in price.
Finally, as I have suggested, if you are an intraday player, use daily Overbought/Oversold
data for calculation of Detrended Oscillator or Oscillator Predictor™ levels. If you trade
daily-based, pay attention to daily and weekly Overbought/Oversold levels. If you trade
weekly-based, i.e. using a weekly chart, be aware of both weekly and monthly Oscillator
levels. Long term mutual fund switching can be greatly enhanced by using these
techniques .
Above all, please keep in mind a market axiom I have been stressing for years. It is
inherent in my market approach and should be gleaned from the afore-mentioned rules.
LOSS OF OPPORTUNITY IS PREFERABLE TO LOSS OF CAPITAL!

=== PAGE 145 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 127
THE OSCILLATOR PREDICTOR™:
In the early 80s, I decided that I needed a means of capturing profit that was more
efficient than any I had seen to date. At that time, I was unaware of Fibonacci Expansion
Analysis and although the Displaced Moving Averages I had developed gave me
reasonable entries, I gave back more "paper profit" than I wanted to in the exit strategies I
was using at that time. Any paper profit was to me, my profit. I had assumed risk to
achieve that profit. I had done considerable work to enter the trade initially and I didn't
want the market taking any of it back! The problem simply stated was, "How could I exit
on extremes in price, rather than wait for a DMA crossover?" Since I was convinced the
Detrended Oscillator was my best Overbought/Oversold tool, and using my background as
an engineer, I reasoned that a set of parametric equations could be created which would
produce, a day ahead of time, the price level that would correspond to an OB/OS
condition in the market. I approached my programmer, George Damusis, with the
problem. He crawled off to his office for two weeks and after applying his considerable
talents to the challenge, the mathematics behind the Oscillator Predictor™ were created
and the study was graphically programmed into the CIS TRADING PACKAGE.
Consider what this discovery meant to me. I could accurately forecast a full day ahead of
time what level of price would produce a logical (historically-based) profit, a
businessman's profit. When you take Logical Profit Objectives, your percentage of
winning trades can't help but increase. The main problem in taking logical profits is the
lack of knowledge traders have in attempting to re-enter the market at a lower risk point.
This issue is addressed in CHAPTERS 8 through 13.
Appendix G shows an example of how the Oscillator Predictor™ works in practice.

=== PAGE 146 ===

128 DiNapoli Levels
SUMMARY
Before we get into the Fibonacci work, let's do a quick summary of the overall plan,
(CHAPTER 3), and see what we've learned so far:
THE NECESSARY ASPECTS OF A SUCCESSFUL TRADING APPROACH
1. Money and self management
See the Bibliography and the Reference material sections.
2. An understanding of market mechanics
References on market mechanics have been made as we have progressed to this
point. When appropriate, more references will be made. For more information,
see the reference materials.
3. Trend and Directional analysis
Lagging and Coincident Indicators theory has been covered.
We've learned how best to identify Trend.
We've learned about certain very powerful Directional signals that overrule Trend.
4. Overbought/ Oversold evaluation
The theory has been covered.
We've learned how to effectively filter and quantify trades.
We've learned how to take certain Logical Profit Objectives.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS:
WE NOW KNOW WHETHER TO BE LONG, SHORT, OR OUT OF A GIVEN
MARKET, AND WE HAVE A MEANS OF DETERMINING WHETHER OR
NOT A TRADE WELL HAVE A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF A GAIN.
5. Market entry techniques (Leading Indicators)
Next we'll see how to position ourselves as safely as possible, within a market that
we have chosen to enter according to the above criteria. We will also investigate
powerful stop placement techniques.
6. Market exit techniques (Leading Indicators)
Then, we will cover additional methods of determining Logical Profit Objectives.

=== PAGE 147 ===

SECTION 3
All of today's markets have something in common. Whether we are dealing with futures
contracts, foreign exchange, equity markets, or even mutual funds. Speed and volatility
have increased dramatically. What used to be a days range in the S&P in 1983 is now
apparent in one bar on a five minute chart! Regardless of what you are trading,
yesterday's methods are ill-equipped to handle today's challenges. The proper use of
Leading Indicators address this issue.

=== PAGE 148 ===

 

=== PAGE 149 ===

CHAPTER
FIBONACCI ANALYSIS, BASIC
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Perhaps in the years to come you might use a portion of your trading profits to travel to
some of the great cultural centers of present and past civilizations. If you do, you will
find as I did, that Fibonacci relationships are intrinsic to the architecture of Athens,
Rome, Amsterdam, Paris, Egypt, many areas of South America, and so on. There's an
elemental resonance to the way these aesthetically pleasing shapes derive from these
mathematical road maps.

=== PAGE 150 ===

132 DiNapoli Levels
You can observe a curious evolution of Fibonacci expansions played out in musical
progressions, crystal formations, and even in the growth of rabbit populations. Whether in
the DNA spiral, the preprogrammed construction of a bee hive honeycomb, or the
inspirational great pyramid of Giza, Fibonacci relationships abound. The human body
itself is a study in Fibonacci relationships. Recently, at one of my workshops I met a
surgeon who had done his graduate thesis on facial reconstruction. The thrust of his study
was to quantitatively relate post surgical success in appearance with how closely the
reconstructed bones approximated the "Golden Mean." There is no denying that
Fibonacci ratios and the numbers that generate these ratios are innate in all matter.
It takes no great leap of mental agility therefore, to expect that the combined activity of
mankind will somehow follow these precepts. This is particularly apparent relative to the
markets, since markets are linked so closely to the overriding human emotions of greed
and fear.
A LITTLE HISTORY:
Leonardo was born the son of Guilielmo Bonacci, a wealthy merchant in Pisa about 1170.
In Italian, "figlio" means "son," hence "figlio Bonacci" which was shortened through the
years to Fibonacci. Signior Leonardo Bonacci was a preeminent mathematician of his
time. He's credited with the discovery of the numerical sequence and ratios that have
come to be known as the Fibonacci series.

=== PAGE 151 ===

Chapter 8 Fibonacci Analysis, Basic 133
Discovering the Fibonacci series is sort of like discovering America. I'm sure the Indians
knew about it before Columbus did. Likewise the proportions defined by the
mathematical relationships so important to us as traders, have been around for quite some
time.
The Golden Mean or Golden Ratio 1.618, to 1 (or .618 to 1) which among other things
closely approximates the cost of this book, has had many names. The Greeks designated
the ratio by the letter "phi." Pacioli, a medieval mathematician, named it the "divine
proportion." Kelper called it "one of the jewels of geometry." Somewhere along the line,
someone dubbed it the "ratio of the whirling squares." I'm glad that one didn't stick.
Consider the implications for the title of this book: "The Practical Application of Whirling
Squares to Investment Markets."
DERIVATION:
The Fibonacci number series has more interesting aspects to it than most of us can imagine
or would wish to. While we might get dizzy considering the possibilities, it's a
mathematician's hot fudge sundae, and then some. Consider the series as most of us know
it. 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21 and so on to infinity. We arrive at the series by simply adding the
last two numbers together, beginning with 1,1. The ratios come about from dividing the
numbers in various ways. If we divided 13 by 21 for example, we get .619 while 21
divided by 13 = 1.615. If we skip a number and divide 8 by 21 we get .381. Conversely,
21 divided by 8 is 2.625. The higher we go in the number series, before dividing, the
closer we come to achieving the exact numerical Fibonacci ratios. We never achieve this,
however, since there are an infinite sequence of decimals stringing after it. This is known
in mathematics as an irrational number.
One interesting aspect of the summation progression is that it doesn't matter where we
start. We can take any two numbers, like 5 and 100. Soon we're dealing with the same
series.
5, 100, 105, 205, 310, 515, 825, 1340, 2165
1340 divided by 2165 = .6189
2165 divided by 1340 = 1.616

=== PAGE 152 ===

134 DiNapoli Levels
While it is known that Mr. Fibonacci "discovered" the series after a trip to Egypt, I get a
different image when I think of him. Imagine the son of Bonacci sitting under a tree some
time in the 13th century, after consuming a great bowl of pasta. He'd likely run out of
fingers and toes and had to go to his abacus when the lights suddenly went on. It must
have been something like the way I felt when I began applying his discovery to the
S&P...as in
WOW !!!
I could go on at great length about the poetry of Fibonacci relationships, but if I did, I'd
never get to their practical application to the markets. If you want to pursue the subject,
many books have been written discussing the more esoteric aspects1. They certainly do a
better job of describing the mathematics involved than I have. Besides, my lack of
reverence toward the subject is bound to upset some people. So, I will leave the poetry,
the derivation, and the history of Fibonacci numbers and ratios to others. This book is
about practical application of Fibonacci concepts to the market, and in that vein, I will
bring us back to reality and repeat the following prohibition for those of you who have
galloped ahead to this chapter.
FIBONACCI ANALYSIS SHOULD ONLY BE APPLIED IN THE PROPER
CONTEXT, WITH PROPER TRAINING, AND AS A PART OF AN OVERALL
PLAN.
1 Many sources of information on Fibonacci-related mathematical concepts are listed in the reference
section located at the back of this book.

=== PAGE 153 ===

Chapter 8 Fibonacci Analysis, Basic 135
GUIDE-POSTS:
What will, and what will not, be covered in the following chapters.
WILL:
$ Basic Fibonacci Expansion and Retracement Analysis applied to the price axis.
$ My Interpretation of Advanced Fibonacci Expansion and Retracement Analysis applied
to the price axis, i.e. "DiNapoli Levels™."
WILL NOT:
Any application whatsoever of Fibonacci analysis to the time axis
The utilization of Fibonacci numbers in any way (I use certain ratios only)
Fibonacci Ovals
Fibonacci Arcs
Fibonacci Spirals
Fibonacci-inspired Bands
Fibonacci-inspired Trend lines
The comparatively minor Fibonacci ratios such as .09, .146, .236, .5.0,
1.382, 2.618, etc.
The topics that I'm not covering are interesting. Some have merit in their own right.
However my experience, research, and direct application to trading strongly suggest that
they aren't worth the time they take to employ, particularly at this point in your learning
curve. Since they unduly complicate the picture, I will concentrate only on those ideas
and concepts which I have found to be the most useful and practical.

=== PAGE 154 ===

136 DiNapoli Levels
BASIC RETRACEMENT ANALYSIS UTILIZING THE TWO MAJOR RATIOS
.382 AND .618:
CHART 8-1
Chart 8-1 depicts a down move from point A to point B. Retracement theory states that
you measure the vertical distance of the wave between these two extremes of price,
(points A and B) and calculate the .382 retracement of this move. At that point, there will
definitely, and without doubt, be resistance (selling) to any up move.
Retracement theory does not say that prices must stop there, only that there will be
significant resistance to further movement.
If price action exceeds the .382 retracement level and continues up, there will definitely,
and without doubt, be additional significant resistance at a .618 retracement of the same
down wave. Will the market stop there? We don't know, but if you were looking to sell
that market (context), either point would be an excellent level to initiate sell orders. If you

=== PAGE 155 ===

Chapters Fibonacci Analysis, Basic 137
were looking for stop placement areas, hiding your stop behind either level would be a far
better approach than picking an arbitrary money stop.
CHART 8-2
In Chart 8-2, we likewise have a move from Point A to Point B. This time it's up.
Fibonacci Retracement Analysis tells us there will be predictable support at a .382 and a
.618 retracement of the extremes of this wave.

=== PAGE 156 ===

138 DiNapoli Levels
Here are the equations relating to the above criteria.
FIBNODE EQUATIONS
F3=B-.382(B-A)
F5=B-.618(B-A)
F3 is the 3/8 Fibnode or .382 retracement.
F5 is the 5/8 Fibnode or .618 retracement.
These are slang representations of retracement levels that are traceable back to early Gann
work, which referred to 1/8 points as support or resistance levels2.
Fibnodes are numbers generated from the application of the above equations. Two (or
more, as you will see) Fibnode pairs are created per market swing (wave). They will elicit
support if they are approached from above or resistance if approached from below.
NOTE: I said extremes of this wave, not closes, not hourly medians, not the average of the
last two highs before the standard deviation crossover of... get the idea? It's the high and
low you are interested in!
2 For those of you who have heard me speak in person or in taped workshops, you know I often refer to Fibnodes as
3/8ths or 5/8ths Fibnodes.

=== PAGE 157 ===

Chapters Fibonacci Analysis, Basic 139
For clarity, idealized bar charts will most often be represented as line charts in the
following chapters. These line charts will always be drawn between the extremes of the
move, (lows to highs, highs to lows) within a Market Swing. See Chart 8-3.
BAR CHART LINE CHART
CHART 8-3
If you are ever confused about applying the advanced Fibonacci techniques (DiNapoli
Levels) taught in this book, create a line chart that accurately mirrors the bar chart you are
analyzing. That simple procedure will shorten your learning curve significantly.

=== PAGE 158 ===

HO DiNapoli Levels
BASIC FIBONACCI EXPANSION ANALYSIS UTILIZING THE THREE
MAJOR EXPANSION RATIOS .618, 1.0, AND 1.618:
The mathematical relationships described by Expansion Analysis, control or specify the
growth patterns of price, thereby providing you with Logical Price (profit) Objectives.
We refer to these as Objective Points (OPs). Three targets or objectives can be calculated
from any ABC Market Swing. The initial thrust may be up or down as in Chart 8-4.
Typically, C is within the Market Swing of wave A B but that it is not an absolute
necessity.
CHART 8-4

=== PAGE 159 ===

Chapter 8 Fibonacci Analysis, Basic 141
The formulas below are used to calculate these profit objectives. The price chart can then
be extended from Point C in the direction of wave A B. These extensions are shown as
dashed waves signifying the likely progressions of price.
OBJECTIVE POINT EQUATIONS
OP = B - A + C OBJECTIVE POINT
COP = .618 (B -A) + C CONTRACTED OBJECTIVE POINT
XOP = 1.618 (B - A) + C EXPANDED OBJECTIVE POINT
Some previous works on this subject, as well as certain well publicized theory, suggest
that the expansion start at the B high or low, rather than at the Point C retracement. My
research and experience lead me to disagree with this. Use Point C to begin your
expansion. If the expansion on a down wave goes below zero, realize that negative
numbers are not "recognized." Otherwise someone would be paying you to take their
stock, or their corn, off their hands. Excluding certain tax shelters, I don't know where
that occurs.
Expansion analysis says nothing about time. The dashed wave is shown achieving the
various objectives at different times, for clarity only. In fact, it is possible for a given AB
wave to reach all three Objective Points, after some reaction, likely against Fibnodes. In
cases of strong Directional moves, price may go immediately to the XOP. The strength of
the market during the AB leg, as well as the lack of strength or depth of the retracements
on the BC leg, help us to determine which of the three price objective targets is initially
met. OP stands for Objective Point; COP for Contracted Objective Point, since it is the
smallest of the three possible objectives; XOP for Expanded Objective Point, since it is the
largest. Generally speaking, OP targets are met more often than COP targets, before a
significant retracement occurs. XOP targets are least frequently fulfilled.
There are other valid Fibonacci expansion ratios, but a trade off must be made between
excessive clutter and proven reliability. My research and experience shows the expansions
stated above are most reliable and most worthy of our attention This should become
apparent when you see how these ratios are used, combined, and applied in the next
chapter DiNapoli Levels.

=== PAGE 160 ===

142 DiNapoli Levels
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Could you discuss the concepts of Fibonacci arcs?
Although my area of expertise is Fibonacci analysis, that doesn't mean I use all aspects of
applying this analysis to the markets. My specialization involves the practical application
of Fibonacci analysis to the markets. In other words, how can we make money out of this.
I researched Fibonacci arcs back in 1989. They were not useful enough for me to include
in my trading methodology. If you wish to pursue this path, the reference section contains
material on this and related subjects.
You use a 7 day oscillator, a 7x5 and a 25x5 Displaced Moving Average but 7 and 25 are
not Fibonacci numbers. Why do you use them ?
I don't care if they're not Fibonacci numbers! Seven and 25 work in the studies you cited.
I'm not a Fibonacci zealot. / use what works!
Why docs Fibonacci theory work?
To some extent, it is a self-fulfilling prophecy since certain knowledgeable entities, both
large and small, successfully employ it. That is not a sufficient explanation however.
Fibonacci theory is natural law. All of us have our own tolerance for risk, pain, and fear.
We also feel degrees of greed. While each of these feelings are expressed in varying
degrees, the average of these emotions for a crowd are somehow quantified by these
mathematical relationships, and faithfully expressed in the markets.