

=== PAGE 221 ===

Chapter 11 Trading With DiNapoli Levels 203
Finally, if I can get a Confluence area off of a thrust bar that is not an identifiable reaction
low, I am an excited trader. I have strong information the world lacks. I'm looking to
make some serious money!
USING FIBONACCI ANALYSIS TO DEFINE MARKET MOVEMENT:
I've alluded to this technique when I discussed Leading and Lagging Indicators in
CHAPTER 2. One of my comments referred to utilizing Leading and Lagging Indicators
to their best advantage. Using Fibonacci as an indicator to define Movement might be a
bit off the mark. It really depends on your experience level with the market in general and
Fibonacci concepts in particular. That being said, the basic idea behind this technique is to
look at the extent of the retracements, to determine the anticipated Movement of the
Market.
Deep retracements presumably lead to a change in Movement from up to down, for
example, while shallow retracements would be consistent with a continuation of existing
market Movement.
While I have used and taught this method since the mid 80s, I suggest using it only as a
confirming indicator, rather than as a primary Directional Signal or Trend indicator. One
has to be thoroughly schooled in the application of higher Time Frame D-Levels to keep
this particular technique accurate.

=== PAGE 222 ===

 

=== PAGE 223 ===

CHAPTER
TYING IT TOGETHERA BASIC EXAMPLE
Okay, you've studied context, you know whether you want to be long or short. You've
studied D-Levels so you know how and where to enter (sort of), and you have a pretty
fair idea of how to go about taking an LPO (logical profit objective). Finally, it's time to
get a trade on.
It's June 27th. We
have had strong
thrust up on the
daily bond chart, and
a Double RePo has
occurred. The two
days following the
Double RePo show
the 3X3 containing
the Trend (cupping
market action).

=== PAGE 224 ===

206 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 12-2
Daily-based players could have sold at the market, on close, the day of the Double RePo.
An alternative strategy would have been to attempt to sell a retracement back in the
direction of the 3X3 the following day. If intraday charting equipment were available, it
would be preferable to sell a retracement back on a shorter Time Frame chart. You could,
for example, fade a Stochastic buy against a precalculated D-Level on an hourly or a half-
hourly chart. A daily-based protective buy stop should be above the '*'.618 Fibnode on
close, since that's where the sell signal would fail. To calculate this retracement level,
your Focus Number would be on the low of the Double RePo day. Your first (and only)
reaction would be the high at Point C. If that type of stop placement is too much for you,
a lower stop, behind a daily or hourly D-level would be okay. Just remember if your stop
gets hit intraday and the '*'.618 has not been exceeded on close, then the Double RePo
is still in play. You should resell at the first opportunity.
Once positioned on the short side, you would look for an LPO, consistent with the Time
Frame you are trading. Such a calculation on a daily chart is possible using the A, B, C, as

=== PAGE 225 ===

Chapter 12 Tying It Togelher. A Basic Example 207
shown in Chart 12-2. Note that this (daily) ABC expansion would give OP support just
below the low at B. Most traders, unaware of this calculation, would have their sell stops
below B, at exactly the wrong place! Also, note that the COP Objective (not shown) has
already been fulfilled! It would be prudent to check the Detrended Oscillator to see how
oversold we were at that point, before getting too excited about staying with the trade, to
the daily based OP.
While the daily is interesting, the shorter term situation is more telling, so that's where
we'll focus. Before we get to those details, however, let's first recognize the fear most
traders have of losing their position. It's not just the neophytes who think this way.
Professionals commonly talk about how hard it is for them to regain a position once they
have lost it, or in our terms, once they have taken a logical profit. What they are really
saying is that they don't know how to get into a running market. What I am saying is,
even if you lose that "one in 20" or "one in 30" big market move, you're better off taking
an LPO, rather than letting the market take you out on a trailing stop. You will see that
most of the time, you can get back into a running market, or for that matter, initially enter
a running market "safely," if you know how and if you do your homework. To illustrate
this point, we're going to see how Diligent Dan would have handled a couple of different
situations where common knowledge would have reasoned it was too late, or the market
had gone too far to enter. We'll also see how Hyper Hank manages to short circuit his
considerable knowledge levels by his lack of psychological control.
SCENARIO 1:
Dan was fat with profits after five weeks of hectic short term trading. Some R&R was in
order, so he closed all his positions and took a little trip to Cancun. Upon returning home,
the night before the big thrust down day, he found 40 faxes from Hyper Hank describing
the Double RePo that had occurred two days previously, and 65 trades he had entered on
a one minute chart. Although Hank's faxes accurately indicated that he had 90% winners,
he failed to mention that they were for approximately two ticks each. By the time he
straightened out that error and paid his broker, Hank had barely broken even.
Diligent Dan seeing the Double RePo and subsequent containment of the Trend by the
3X3, prepared for an entry at the opening the next morning. He attempted to send a fax
to Hank three times, but the line was perpetually busy.

=== PAGE 226 ===

208 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 12-3
Above is the first portion of the five minute chart, of the big thrust down day (6/29),
shown previously on the daily Chart 12-2.
At the opening, the market gapped down from the night session close. Being unsure of
where he'd be filled, Dan waited for a retracement to occur before he entered his orders.
We're looking at a down wave so the Focus Number is the low of the move, 11411. The
first Reaction Point is the high at 11508. Although we could put a gap 'G' Reaction
Number at the high of the day (6/29), let's keep this example simple. We'll consider more
advanced comments later. The Fibonacci retracements are shown in the FibNodes™
program printout below.
Focus Number File BDU051 Focus# (Low for the swing) /in 32nds/0.382 ..618
Point Number Resistance Fib Nodes Point* (Enter lowest high first)

=== PAGE 227 ===

Chapter 12 Tying It Together, A Basic Example 209
Dan placed his sell order just below 11422 and his protective buy stop above the .618
Node at 11430. Dan was filled, since there was an almost perfect .382 retracement at
11421. Dan expected a deep move down, since there was a Double RePo in play and the
day started with a gap down. Dan therefore quickly calculated the expansions during the
consolidation and chose an XOP rather than an OP, or COP to close his trade.
7Aug96 18:41:45 Updated: 07/24/1996 0.618 1.618
Point Value Objective Points File BDU052 /in 32nds/
A = 11508 COP = 11403
B = 11411 OP = 11324
C = 11421 XOP = 11306
Copyright (c) 1996 CIS, Inc.
He placed a closing buy order a few ticks above the XOP level. Dan's protective stop was
never approached and the market broke hard. On the drop, the price didn't quite reach
the XOP. See Chart 12-4. Whether we assume Dan was filled on his closing buy on this
drop, or that he had to wait a bit, makes little difference, since the market made the XOP
after another throw back rally up to 11326. For the sake of simplicity, let's assume a fill.
Dan called Hank on Hank's private line but couldn't get through. Hank was bitterly
arguing with his broker over the fill he'd received on his "at the market" (entry) order.
Hank was so worried about missing the big move, he didn't wait for a retracement. The
fill was so bad, Hyper Hank was in a rage. He closed "at the market" on the throw back
rally where Dan went short. After all, Hank was in a 4 tick loss, and it was so incredibly
frustrating! Hank was FLAT for the big drop.
What about Conservative Carl?
He saw the Double RePo but wanted to be sure it worked before he entered. When he
saw it work by gapping down it scarred him. Carl had purchased some unripend bananas
the day before. That was enough risk for him so he sat this one out.

=== PAGE 228 ===

210 DiNapoli Levels
SCENARIO 2:
Both Dan and Hank had a second "safe" opportunity to enter on the short side, after the
thrust down move to 11310, when most traders would have considered the market to have
"gone too far."
CHART 12-4
Consider the Fibnodes created after the 11310 low. Again, we'll keep this simple by
considering only the first reaction back.
Focus Number File BDU053 Focus# (Low for the swing) /in 32nds/ 0.382 0.618
Point Number Resistance Fib Nodes Point* (Enter lowest reaction high first)
11310 1
=====> 11326
===> 11405
11421
Copyright (c) 1996 CIS, Inc
If we hit the first Node back, we would be selling at, or below the 11326 level, while
hiding our stop behind 11405.

=== PAGE 229 ===

Chapter 12 Tying It Together, A Basic Example 21 1
Rather than assume a fill, as we did in the earlier entry, we'll examine a bit of floor
mechanics.
Notice the FLAT tops at the 11326, .382 retracement level. This indicates a large
overhead sell order or many sell orders.
In this case, an experienced and level-headed trader like Dan, with a resting sell order at
11326, would call the floor and give instructions to "give it a tick." If you can't call the
floor you would "cancel-replace" the order a tick or two under 11326 or just "go to the
market." In any case, the 11326 area was a nice "safe" place to go short, with your
protective buy stop just a few ticks away (over 11405).
ADVANCED COMMENTS:
Let's go over the second entry, Scenario 2, in a more detailed and more advanced level.
The down wave after the initial XOP Profit Objective of 11310 was met, would look
something like this on a line chart.
CHART 12-5

=== PAGE 230 ===

212 DiNapoli Levels
The retracement series showing D-Level resistance using the proportional divider, would
look like this:
CHART 12-6
The computer printout would display the more complete Fibonacci series and
accompanying DiNapoli Levels in a tabular format, that would look like this:
Focus Number File BDU053 Focus* (Low for the swing) /in 32nds/
Point Number Resistance Fib Nodes Point* (Enter lowest reaction high first)
11310 1
===> 11326 T
===> 11405 T
11421
11310 2
===> 11402 *
===> 11416 *
11508
Copyright (c) 1996 CIS. Inc.
The first sell level would be at 11326, and since we are attempting to enter a running
market with considerable thrust after a Double RePo, it would be very reasonable to get
aggressive and hit (sell) the first DiNapoli Level calculated. As mentioned earlier, if a sell
were attempted at 11326, given the flat tops, it would be prudent to call the floor and tell
them to "give it a tick." In any case, selling a tick or two before the Node is reasonable,

=== PAGE 231 ===

Chapter 12 Tying It Together, A Basic Example 213
otherwise you are apt to be filled, only when you are wrong, i.e. when the trade goes
against you!
Sometimes it takes more than good analysis to be a winner and in this case a knowledge of
market mechanics is essential. What about selling at 11326 MIT? "Market If Touched"
(MIT) orders are typically not accepted at the Board of Trade where bonds are traded.
You can always make other arrangements if you trade enough, but if you're a "two lotter"
without access, and you don't give it a tick or two, you may not be able to gain access to
the floor in time to change your order.
A good stop for this trade could be behind the 'K' Confluence area, i.e. 11402-11405.
This Confluence area is made up of a 'T' (Thrust) .618 Reaction and a '*' (Primary)
Reaction .382 Node. It doesn´t get any better than that. As strong as this area of
Confluence is, however I would place my initial stop behind the major (11416) '*' .618
instead. Here's why. If the market pushed through 'K' briefly (a few seconds), a stop
placed at 'K' would be hit, but a stop placed behind the '*' wouldn't be. A brief push
through Confluence does not mean the area is broken, so you would want to stay with the
trade.
If, however, the market stayed above 'K,' I would suspect my positioning in the trade was ,
wrong, and take the first opportunity to get out on a pull back toward the Confluence
area. Then I'd cancel the initial stop.
After that, I'd take a fresh look at the trade by examining the expansions up (seeing if they
were fulfilled) and the current Trends on the intraday charts to see where I was, i.e.
whether or not the context for the trade supported further action.

=== PAGE 232 ===

214 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 12-7
Now let's consider in more detail the possibility of the market moving against me as
shown in the left portion of Chart 12-7. We have the market breaking back down after
being held at Confluence, then supporting on a Fibnode, and making a move up against me
to an OP. In this case, I have a couple of options. The re-test of the Confluence area may
result in a double top and a subsequent break to new lows. However, it would be prudent
to lower my buy stop from its initial position, to the high from 'F' to 'K.' Stops now exist
above this most recent high. Therefore, there is a higher probability that the Confluence
area will be penetrated on a second push up, than when it was initially approached. If I
were trading size or if I were in a thin market and I were very concerned with fills
resulting from stop orders, I could wait for a retracement of the full up move and get out
on an "Or Better" (OB) order against a support Fibnode. This possibility is pictured on
the right side of Chart 12-7.
If this level of detail in the "Advanced Comments" section has you reaching for the
Advil®, just ignore it. If you can't figure out why anyone would bother with just a few
ticks, the answer is threefold. First, a few ticks on a 100 lot is significant in the bonds.
Second, these advanced comments can be applied to any Time Frame, not just to this
example, so they are worth considering as an intellectual exercise. Third, if you trade size,
you're often in a much better situation closing your position with an OB (or better), rather
than stop orders.

=== PAGE 233 ===

Chapter 12 Tying It Together, A Basic Example 215
NOW LET'S GET BACK TO REALITY:
We can reasonably assume Dan achieved a fill, selling at 11325, when he told the floor to
"give it a tick." We can see why he took the COP out on all or a part of the position he
sold, when we consider the comments below. Here's what the expansion series looked
like.
24Jul96 12:22:12 Updated: 07/24/1996 0.618 1.1618
Point Value Objective Points File BDU054 /in 32nds/
A= 11421 COP= 11231
B= 11310 OP= 11215
C= 11326 XOP= 11120
Copyright (c) 1996 CIS, Inc.
The reason I say "all or part," is that on the one hand, it's a Double RePo and is likely to
go lower over time. How soon, may depend upon how oversold the market is at the COP
level. As I suggested at the beginning of the chapter, look at the detrend to determine
this, or use the Oscillator Predictor™ to determine it ahead of time. On the other hand, I
always like to book logical profits, and it's been a big day. Also, if we are strictly intraday
players, it's getting late, and we would probably be expecting a lot to be looking for an
OP before the close. As it turned out, the COP expansion 11231 was met and exceeded
slightly, so we would have had no problem achieving a closing fill.
I've contrasted the actions of a level-headed trader and an emotional trader to show you
how personality traits can impact performance. It's obvious that there are alternative
trading strategies, outlined earlier in the book, that meet the challenges illustrated in this
example. The implementation of these alternative strategies depend upon the individual
trader's experience, access, Time Frame, and personal objectives.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Did Hyper ever get a decent trade off?
No, Hank never got his fill, selling at 11326. He made arrangements to change brokers
and spent the rest of the day at the local bar drowning his frustrations and talking to
anyone who would listen. He never had a chance. He was exhausted before the day
began and impotent when he most needed focus. Now he'll be out of the market for

=== PAGE 234 ===

216 DiNapoli Levels
weeks, while he waits for his new broker to mail him the correct forms and for his funds to
be transferred. Chances are he'll need a new bite plate before he gets over this one.
Joe, you say you can reenter a running market, but we both knew you'II never get a fill
on a big drop, so how do you enter in that case?
The problem is one of semantics. You enter a running market against a D-Level
retracement with an appropriate stop. If it's a disaster situation, however, like October
'87 in the S&P, you don't play1. Risk tolerance is good for trading. Foolhardiness is
suicidal. When I see a market in panic, I am not interested and I look for a way out as an
upcoming S&P example will illustrate.
/ understand the example in its entirety but, according to the criteria for a Double RePo
in Chapter 6, it seems the length of the first and second penetration are a little too wide.
Is this a look-alike or a Double RePo?
Strictly speaking, it's a look-alike. Given the extent of the preceding thrust however, I
have no problem with treating this look-alike as the real thing.
1 Reference the in home TRADING COURSE (Andre the Giant and Chuck Morris anecdote).

=== PAGE 235 ===

CHAPTER
FIBONACCI TACTICS
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Various Fibonacci-related trading strategies have been discussed throughout this book.
Some have catchy names designed to help you remember their character, some don't.
What qualifies as a trading tactic and what might be considered a trading hint is a debate I
won't get into. Regardless of what these strategies are called, I believe it's particularly
helpful for you to have a chapter devoted specifically to this topic, and to have certain of
these approaches defined, apart from market examples. Those of you who have studied
my earlier material may recognize that fewer tactics have been described in this chapter
than you have seen before. The reason is simple. Although all of the tactics described
earlier are effective and continue to work, I believe that not all of them deserve equal
consideration.
Now, before we address the specific techniques described, let's be sure we understand the
problems they are designed to solve.

=== PAGE 236 ===

218 DiNapoli Levels.
Consider the following Fibonacci support series depicted in the FibNodes™ program
printout.
Focus Number File SMNDA4 Focus* (High for the swing)
Point Number Support Fib Nodes Point* (Enter highest reaction low first)
This series clearly shows a Confluence area between 17214 and 17204. We will assume
some appropriate context that indicates a choice of that Confluence area as our long entry
point. We'll choose 17220 as our specific entry price and call that point 'X.' The
assumed context could be something previously discussed in this book or something you
have chosen as an appropriate indicator. For example, maybe you want to look at put-call
ratios, Bellinger Band extremes (on the pullback), a respected recommendation, a
Commitment of Traders report, or whatever. A deeper D-Level, let's say just below the
17080 level, will be the protective stop placement area 'Z.'
Problem: How can we best enter this market at 'X,' where we assume support will
manifest?
Answer: Different strokes for different folks, hence there is more than one Fibonacci entry
tactic.
NOTE:
Be sure you understand how I have framed the forthcoming discussion, before you go on.
The next series of important examples all hinge on the preceding paragraph.

=== PAGE 237 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 219
BONSAI: AN ENTRY AND STOP PLACEMENT TECHNIQUE
Although I rarely use this particular tactic, I include it for those of you who are
psychologically suited to it. This would include traders who are willing to accept a lower
percentage of winning trades than would be possible using other techniques described in
this book. A number of former floor traders I have trained like this technique. Hyper
Hank would likely be a Bonsai enthusiast. Those who utilize Bonsai believe, perhaps
correctly, that their ultimate level of profitability will be enhanced by this entry tactic,
since they typically trade more often and keep the level of each loss suffered very low.
Here's how this very simple strategy works.
You have, as indicated above, a pre-calculated D-Level entry at point 'X.' Using Bonsai,
you have a preset money or point stop at 'Y,' irrespective of additional DiNapoli Levels
CHART 13-1
You enter both orders at the same time and hope the stop isn't hit. If it is, and the price
immediately gets back above 'X,' you then reenter the trade at the market and again place
your stop at 'Y.'

=== PAGE 238 ===

220 DiNapoli Levels.
If the original stop at 'Y' is hit and the price remains below 'X,' then see if the context
you choose to support the trade is still valid. If it is, you select a deeper DiNapoli Level
upon which to enter the trade and place another money stop below it.
Bonsai players have 'Y' defined differently for each different Time frame they may choose
to play. The amount is usually determined by individual experience in a given market.
Between 55 to 85 points is very typical for the five minute S&P, while three to five thirty-
seconds (3-5/32nds) is common for the five minute US Bond market. The advantage of
using Bonsai is its simplicity. Its ease of use frees the mind from more complex stop loss
exit strategies and therefore may preserve a more relaxed attitude in the trader. He is
therefore free to properly pursue the next trade in this, or other markets.
There are many disadvantages. Bonsai players typically disregard volatility from one day
to the next in their selection of pre-set money (or point) stops. If they don't have
excellent brokerage services, the frequency of trading can be costly in both slippage and
transaction fees. They also must have quick floor access to reenter orders if they are
trading short term. Although the exit criteria is simple, trades require constant
observation, since contingency order criteria left with a typical broker would likely be too
complicated and subjective for the broker to be held responsible for the result.

=== PAGE 239 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 221
BUSHES: AN ENTRY AND STOP PLACEMENT TECHNIQUE
Bushes is the technique typically used in the examples in this book with the exception of
those described in "Advanced Comments.". You enter your buy above one D-Level and
hide your stop behind another. It gained its name from a market professional who
attended a private seminar some years back. He crouched behind a large plant I had in my
office area. Then, as he shot at another attendee with his finger, he indicated that his
favored method to capture profit was to hide behind the bushes, jump up, take a shot, and
duck back down behind the bushes. The entry and stop strategies described in CHAPTER
11 (AN IDEALIZED TRADING EXAMPLE) are clear examples of Bushes. Standing up and
taking the shot is akin to your entry before one D-Level, while crouching down behind the
bush is akin to hiding your stop behind another D-Level. The differing trade entry
strategies described in CHAPTER 11 are simply variations in where to take the shot and
which bush to hide behind.
The obvious significant difference between Bonsai and Bushes is the lack of "cover" for*
the stop. The subtle, significant difference requires a knowledge of floor mechanics.
Suffice it to say, if your stop is just behind a support D-Level, you have a good broker,
and you're hit, slippage should be mitigated. If you have no support (more likely with
Bonsai) even with a good broker, who knows where your stop will be filled. Your chance
of having a better fill is alwavs higher with Bushes than with Bonsai because of the
support manifested by the D-Level itself, even if it doesn't hold.
CHART 13-2

=== PAGE 240 ===

222 DiNapoli Levels.
MINESWEEPER A: AN ENTRY AND STOP PLACEMENT TECHNIQUE
Using this technique, we're exercising more caution than with either Bonsai or Bushes.
Here's how it works. Let's say we want to enter the market at D- Level 'X.'
•
CHART 13-3
While we expect support at 'X,' we wait, first for support to manifest at Point 1, then for
a move up to 'F.' Point 1 and Point F (our Focus Number) are selected by market forces.
We do not attempt to precalculate them. After those occurrences, we calculate- the Fib
levels of that up move. On a line chart, it would look like Chart 13-4.