

=== PAGE 121 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 103
The corn futures chart below shows two RRTs. It was constructed outside of our
"normal" Time Frames (see CHAPTER 2) to show you that we can "play" with the Time
Frame selection to achieve the look of a RRT if it is not immediately apparent. This is
what I mean when I say we can act on this signal in any Time Frame.
Note how the close of the second bar of RRT 1 bounced back from the extreme low, the
point of recognition. Buried in the lower Time Frame action is the retracement we're
looking for as our short entry.
RRT 2 was effective, but the contract was so close to expiration we'd have to look at the
continuation chart or distant contracts for confirmation of this signal. Unless we were a
commercial acting in the cash market, we would obviously trade on the signal in a more
distant month than the one shown on this chart.
CHART 6-25
Like many of the Directional Indicators I've given you, I'm aggressive about my entry
technique when the pattern develops. It is very dangerous, a prohibition in fact, to
anticipate this particular signal. The reasons will be clear when we cover the more
advanced Fibonacci techniques.
As a point of interest, I learned about this signal back in 1988 when I was long the S&P.
A rumor about Vice President George Bush, fooling around on Barbara hit the market.

=== PAGE 122 ===

104 DiNapoli Levels
When the rumor hit, there was a hard break in price. It drove all the intraday trends down,
albeit Unconfirmed (both the Trend and the rumor.) I hit the retracement back, i.e.
liquidated my longs and went net short. The next thing I knew we were back to the top of
the RRT. Now I was looking at two losses. I got stubborn and refused to take a short
retracement back in the direction of my sell to get flat. Even though the Unconfirmed
down trends disappeared, I was now trading against the Confirmed up trends I had
originally used for the context of my initial long trade! This was clearly a Mistake. I
wasn't going to let those (expletive deleted) get me! Well, they got me and a half an hour
later when I finally got out, I was obviously counting more losses than if I had exited when
I should have. Fortunately, I straightened things out quickly the following morning by
buying the first retracement against a shallow Fibnode. The RRT was born!
I've included one final Chart 6-26 on gold. If you can't find the RRTs, you'd best see an
optometrist.
CHART 6-26

=== PAGE 123 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 105
"LOOK-ALIKES":
Look-alikes are "want-to-be's" or "near miss" Directional signals. They don't quite meet
the qualifications. Maybe a Double RePo is lacking in the extent or nature of the desired
thrust. Possibly the tops between the first and second penetrations are a bit wider than the
specified criteria. Perhaps the extension bars of the Railroad Track are a bit short or
maybe the Railroad Track is occurring in "suburbia" rather than "in the country." The
consolidation below a Head and Shoulders neckline might be one period rather than the
several periods we'd like to see, before the Failure occurs. All these situations are Look-
alikes. Often Look-alikes will behave similarly to the Directional signals they mimic, but
not with the probability of success we would expect from a fully qualified Directional
Indicator. I'll play these signals with less gusto, fewer contracts on the line. You might
choose to let them go by. Either way is acceptable, just be sure you don't get in their
way.
"STRETCH":
This Directional Indicator combines an oversold or overbought oscillator with strong
Fibonacci support or resistance. It is obviously pretty difficult to describe this signal since
we have yet to cover either concept. See CHAPTERS 7, 8, & 9.
The basic idea behind this indicator is to act on the combined strength of these two
powerful, differently derived Leading Indicators, which indicate support or resistance
when their respective price values are in close proximity.
Even though your entry is strictly placed, Stretch is more risky than other Directional
signals. This signal has you buying down thrust and selling up thrust. Understand its
implications before deciding to use it, place a physical stop (Bonsai or Bushes, Fib Tactics,
CHAPTER 13), or monitor the position closely.
THE "FIB SQUAT":
This Directional Indicator is similar to Stretch in that you need strong Fibonacci support at
a point where something else occurs. In this case, the something else is a Squat. So
what's a Squat? As developed by friend and colleague, Bill Williams3, the Squat is a
function of the range of a given price bar and the volume, or TIC volume, that occurs
while that range is being created. The basic idea is that high volume and little price
3 Bill Williams, Profitunity Trading Group, 2300 Pilgrim Estates Dr., Texas City, TX 77590

=== PAGE 124 ===

106 DiNapoli Levels
movement indicate substantial support or resistance. Some of you old timers will
remember the term "churning." That was a phenomenon in the stock market which
occurred when you'd get tons of volume (60,000 to 80,000 shares in a day) and little price
movement. The idea behind my approach to this indicator is to first look for likely
Fibonacci support and resistance, and then see if a Squat manifests when that point is
reached. If so, the Squat confirms the Fib support or resistance, and it's okay to act
without a trend in your favor to support the trade. This indicator, like Stretch, is a more
risky (lower probability of winning) trade than the other Directional Indicators I've
outlined. It's good for the hyper types or over-traders among you, since you can use it all
the way down to a five minute chart. Both Stretch and the Fib Squat yield a reasonable
probability of a successful outcome.
For additional safety, the Fib Squat is most useful in a context, within a context. Let's
say, for example, that you have a strong weekly trend in place and you are experiencing a
pullback via a Stochastic sell on the weekly. The MACD is holding nicely. With several
daily Fibnode locations to choose from to go long, it is helpful to see a Squat manifest at
one of them, before jumping in.
SQUAT - greater (TIC) volume and a smaller MFI than the previous bar has.
MFI = rb/v
where:
rb is range of the bar in tics or points
v is TIC volume
Squats look like high volume, low range bars, and are fairly easy to see without
concocting elaborate formulas. See Chart 6-27.

=== PAGE 125 ===

CHART 6-27Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 107

=== PAGE 126 ===

108 DiNapoli Levels
Below, Chart 6-28 is an equity on Fib support (not shown) experiencing high volume as
well as a narrow range daily bar. The subsequent move up culminates at an almost exact
Fibonacci Logical Profit Objective. After you complete CHAPTERS 8 & 9, come back and
check for an OP move up. Incidentally, this up move turned out to be a very significant
rally high.
CHART 6-28
FILTERING THE "FIB SQUAT":
I have found that the level of "squatiness" is important as a filter to the Squat. If you
choose to filter the Squat, part of the above formula would change accordingly: Squat
equals 30% greater (TIC) volume and a smaller MFI than the previous bar. Larry Ehrhart,
developer' of WINdoTRADEr™4, has done some valuable research in this area. The
bottom line is that I like to see a significantly increased level of volume, say 30% or more,
before I call a Squat significant. In addition, you may more easily see a Squat manifest in
a four or six minute chart, rather than a five or 30 minute chart. As with the RRT, a Time
Frame outside of the ones we normally consider is not only acceptable but desirable if it
can help you identify the existence of the indicator.
4 Larry Ehrhart, 3700 North Lake Shore Drive, Suite 7-09. Chicago, EL 60613, (312) 871-4687,
(312)789-7434 Fax

=== PAGE 127 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators. 9 Power Patterns 109
You can anticipate a Squat if you have all the volume of the previous bar, a very tight
range, and if only 1/2 or 1/3 of the Time Frame you are observing has elapsed. It's a
pretty sure bet you'll get your necessary volume reading by the close, just make sure the
range has not expanded unacceptably.
Another way to "play" the Squat, is to wait for a Confirmed Squat to occur in the vicinity
of a major Fibnode, then enter on the first shallow Fibonacci retracement you get. Your
stop goes at or just under the bottom (top) of the Squat bar. A similar technique is
described as Minesweeper A in the section on Fib tactics, CHAPTER 13.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Can I anticipate Directional signals?
You can anticipate any signal I give you in this book, but Directional signals can be among
the most dangerous to anticipate. Anticipating classic pattern Failures and Railroad
Tracks can be suicidal.
Why do Directional signals take precedence over Trend signals?
By their nature, they are more powerful.
A majority of your examples are for long plays. Are these signals as effective on the
short side?
Yes, perhaps more effective since the public or less experienced traders have a propensity
to favor longs. When they are wrong they are more easily panicked.
Don't you ever feel for the player on the other side of the trade?
It's your choice. Be the minnow or the shark. Minnows will be eaten and smart sharks
get out of the vicinity when the big whites are circling.
In summary, I would encourage you to reflect upon what you see occurring in the market.
Test the validity of reoccurring patterns and Failures of widely followed signals. Soon you
will develop some Directional signals of your own. The difficult part is waiting for them
to manifest.

=== PAGE 128 ===

 

=== PAGE 129 ===

CHAPTER
OVERBOUGHT & OVERSOLD
OSCILLATORS
WHAT WORKS, WHAT DOESN'T, AND WHY
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Overbought (OB) and Oversold (OS) are among the least understood market conditions
that traders grapple with. Most lose money attempting to utilize what they know about
the subject. This is not surprising, because we're getting into the use of coincident and
Leading Indicators and very few traders are properly prepared for the challenge these
concepts present. Because of the level of misunderstanding, instead of narrowly defining
what I use and how I use it, my approach will be to discuss the broad topic of Oscillators
in general: what works, what doesn't, and why.
Typical thinking about Oscillators can be summed up by the following comment.
"Oscillators work in a consolidating market, but once a Trend starts, they don't work at
all." While this thinking may be typical, it severely limits and distorts a wealth of
important trading strategies. The idea behind the statement goes something like this. You
can sell Overbought and buy Oversold, as long as the market is consolidating and... you
would expect to make money. This "sound good, feel good" strategy implies that you can
identify when a market is consolidating with enough certainty to place orders. Does
anyone want to try the ADX Average Directional Movement Index1 as a means of making
this judgment? While this approach may be acceptable for some of you, it's not for me. I
1 J. Welles Wilder Jr., New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems (Trend Research, 1978), hereafter
cited parenthetically in the text as Wilder, New Concepts.

=== PAGE 130 ===

112 DiNapoli LeveIs
haven't found it to be sufficiently accurate in this context, particularly for intraday charts.
What about the second part of this statement?
"Once a Trend starts, they (Oscillators) don't work at all." The idea here is that the
initiation of orders against the prevailing Trend will likely result in losses, by your stops
getting hit.
The real problem with the initial statement is inherent in the way works is defined. I intend
to show you how the right Oscillator can be made to work for you, in a wide variety of
market situations.
Before we discuss uses and potential benefits however, let's first discuss which Oscillators
are most commonly used, and which are best to use in the context of an
Overbought/Oversold indicator.
THE STOCHASTIC:
The Stochastic is one of the most consistently misused indicators in the trader's arsenal.
Traders typically consider any move over 75 to be Overbought and any move under 25 to
be Oversold. That's not what George Lane (its originator) teaches and that's exactly the
opposite of what Jake Bernstein's research of the Stochastic Pop Indicator2 tells us. In
fact, according to Jake's research, fully 50% of a strong market move can take place after
the 75/25% barriers have been crossed!
In the daily treasury bond Chart 7-1, there are two places, marked by vertical lines, where
you would have been killed buying in excess of 25% Oversold. Note, this is the case even
though I have used the more typical (stronger) 14 period Stochastic, rather than what I
described to you in CHAPTER 5. Further complicating the issue for new traders is the fact
that in strongly trending markets, the Stochastic may never see these extreme (75%/25%)
levels on typical retracements of an ongoing Trend. If you were waiting for these levels,
you'd likely never get the opportunity to sell in a strong down trend or buy in an strong up
trend.
2 Jake Bernstein, Short Term Trading in Commodity Futures, (Probus Publishing Company, 1987),
hereafter cited parenthetically in the text as Bernstein, Short Term Trading.

=== PAGE 131 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 113
CHART 7-1
THE MACD:
Other traders use the MACD (Moving Average Convergence Divergence) to indicate
extremes in market Movements, or worse yet, as a divergence tool. As you know from
CHAPTER 5, this is a cleverly designed and highly capable Trend-indicating Oscillator, not
an Overbought/Oversold tool. There is, however, an innovative technique (Bernstein,
Short Term Trading) of using the distance between the slow and fast lines of the MACD
as an Overbought and Oversold indicator. In my opinion, however, there is a much better
way to accomplish this.
THE RELATIVE STRENGTH INDEX (RSI):
The RSI is not it. Although far better than the Stochastic or the MACD for OB/OS
analysis, this important indicator was created by Welles Wilder (Wilder, New Concepts) to
nave universal appeal and easy application across markets. He certainly achieved those
objectives, but for the more sophisticated trader something was lost. Since the RSI is
normalized at +/- 100, like the Stochastic, it squashes strong market moves. If the
Oscillator is at 95 and a big up move continues, it only has 4.9999 points left to go.

=== PAGE 132 ===

114 DiNapoli Levels
When the RSI achieved 96.50 on the daily coffee chart below, where could it go? As the
move exploded in price, the RSI went down to 93.78, while the Detrended Oscillator
increased from 9.41 to 16.19. A seven period input was used for both indicators in this
example. On the right side of the chart, we see the Detrend at a whopping value (in
relative terms, over four times the original amount of 9.41). The RSI was actually less
than it was originally at 89.00. Discernible values of Overbought and Oversold relative to
price are of critical importance. Why not use an indicator that plainly illustrates them?
CHART 7-2
Also, consider that Overbought in coffee has a different character than Overbought in
corn, which has a different character than Overbought in the S&P! This character doesn't
have the elbow room to show itself using the normalized RSI.
THE COMMODITY CHANNEL INDEX (CCI):
Finally, there's the Commodity Channel Index (CCI). I have the least amount of criticism
for the CCI, probably because it does a fairly good job of approximating the Oscillator I
use. Although Donald Lambert's3 development of this indicator was tied to Trend and
cycle work, most traders who use this indicator use it as an Overbought/Oversold tool.
The CCI is not normalized to +/- 100 and therefore requires more understanding to
employ. This is likely why it is not used (or misused) extensively. Although the CCI has
value, I believe the Detrended Oscillator achieves significantly better results.
3 Donald Lambert, "Commodity Channel Index: Tool for Trading Cyclic Trends", Technical Analysis of
Stocks & Commodities magazine, July/August 1983, page 120-122.

=== PAGE 133 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 115
THE DETRENDED OSCILLATOR:
The Detrend is an indicator that's been around a long time. I don't know who the
originator was or when it was developed. The Detrend attempts to measure variations of
price about a zero line which represents the Trend, hence Detrended. We define the Trend
as a given Moving Average, then we mathematically make that average constant, or the
zero line.
The formula for the Detrend is simple:
Detrended Oscillator = Close minus Moving Average.
A reasonable variation is the high or low, minus a given Moving Average as depicted on
Chart 7-5.
Some of my colleagues believe incomprehensible math equates with genius, and therefore
to profits. I always believe in keeping things as simple as possible. Since I did my
research on the indicator in the early 80s on an 8088 processor, keeping the math simple
was a practical, as well as a philosophical consideration .
I approached research on the Detrend in the same way as I approached research on the
DMAs. I observed the quality of the indicator's usefulness, in trading situations, over a
broad spectrum of data. I used none of the typical optimization techniques popularized
some years later.
In observing literally thousands of data sets, with a wide variety of combinations of the
detrend (simple, weighted, exponential, and mathematical MAs, of the median, high, low,
close, etc.), my final conclusion for the best data sets were:
1. The close (today) minus a three day simple Moving Average of the close.
and
2. The close (today) minus the seven day simple Moving Average of the close.
Of the two data sets, the 7 day MA of the close is clearly the most useful in the context I
apply it. I still use both data sets, however, particularly under Strategy 1, described
below.
Aside from the profits generated from this laborious enterprise, the most gratifying aspect
is that I see no reason to change the parameters today, over 15 years later!

=== PAGE 134 ===

116 DiNapoli Levels
USING THE DETRENDED OSCILLATOR:
Now, let's talk about how to use this powerful and versatile Oscillator in a variety of easy-
to-apply strategies.
STRATEGY 1:
When your position reaches 70, 80, 90, or 100% of average Overbought/Oversold, take
your profit.
The key considerations for employment of Strategy 1 are:
The Time Frame we use to calculate Overbought/Oversold and... the definition of what is
meant by average Overbought/Oversold.
Here's where experience comes in. I always calculate OB/OS levels on a daily basis, i.e.
daily data, even though 80% of my trades are off a five minute chart. Let me put this a
little differently, so there is no misunderstanding. I never use intraday charts to calculate
OB/OS levels for determining Logical Profit Objectives, even though intraday charts are
where my position may be taken. To determine OB/OS levels, I look back over the
Oscillator peaks and valleys. I consider about six months of the most recent daily data.
Average Overbought/Oversold is a value judgment, not a strict mathematical calculation.
If I have three Overbought peaks as in Chart 7-3 with values of 96.85, 101.00, and
100.70, I'd take approximately 98.00 as an average Overbought.

=== PAGE 135 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 117
CHART 7-3
I'll typically have my order resting in the market at a price equivalent to approximately
90% of the Oscillator's average Overbought level. At that point, I say "adios" to the
trade. You might choose a lower or higher percentage. A resting day order is always best
to take advantage of unexpected news or large traders pushing the market around for their
own purposes. If it doesn't get hit, you cancel it or just let it expire.
Okay, so you have the Oscillator value in mind where you wish to take your profit. You
can't call the floor and tell them to take you out at a seven day Detrend of 88 (90% of
98); you need a price. To get that price ahead of time, you need the Oscillator
Predictor™ which I'll describe in some detail at the end of this chapter and in Appendix G.
If you don't have the Oscillator Predictor™ to precalculate price levels which correspond
to the Detrended Oscillator levels you wish to act on, you have another option. Some
analysis software (Aspen Graphics™ and TradeStation®, among them) will allow you to
set an alert at a given level on an indicator. You hear a beep, you exit the trade. While
this is acceptable, the problem with setting an alert on the indicator is that you might miss
the trade by the time you hear the alert, act on it, and contact the floor. These price levels

=== PAGE 136 ===

118 DiNapoli Levels
are by definition unstable. These prices typically do not last for long, unless the market is
in a runaway mode. It is conceivable that if you give a price order when the alert goes
off, that you will only get out in runaway markets, i.e. those situations that would enhance
your profit by staying in! So, if you use an indicator alert to get your exit point, simply
exit at the market, and hope for the best. Those Mercedes and Jags in the basement
parking garage of the Chicago Merc aren't there by accident. Market orders are one of
the reasons the locals are able to buy them, so beware.
If profits were taken each time extremes were reached in Overbought, as shown on Chart
7-3, you would not suffer the draw downs of the subsequent pullbacks. These pullbacks
are where most traders would have been stopped out by improperly tightening their stops.
These pullbacks are for reentering against Fibonacci retracement levels. They are not for
exiting!
When you employ the strategy of utilizing Logical Profit Objectives properly, your
percentage of winning trades should increase dramatically, but you may not be there if the
market really takes off and keeps going. You could, of course, hold multiple contracts
and take Logical Profit Objectives on only a portion of the contracts you hold. It might
interest you to know that I have run parallel accounts in which I have taken LPOs on all
positions, partial positions, and none at all. Over time, the hands down winner is taking
LPOs on all positions.
There's a corollary for Strategy 1. Let's say you're trading an intraday Time
Frame and you are using Fibonacci Profit Objectives. The strategy would be to
take close-in Objectives (COP's), when operating at or near these extremes in
price, as defined by the Detrended Oscillator. A variation of this technique is used
even by floor traders I've taught. Their actions in the pit change significantly as
these Overbought and Oversold levels are approached. Your actions can change
too. Think about it. If a market reaches 70% to 90% of average Overbought on a
given day, it is likely that the market will meet resistance and at a minimum,
consolidate for the next several days. Under these circumstances, avoid "buy
stopping" old highs. Look for, and position yourself, on dips intraday, against
Fibonacci support areas. Then, immediately exit against old highs, when the price
nears average Overbought again, or when you get close to a Fibonacci Objective,
whichever comes first. Remember, the price levels that produce OB/OS will
change each day. This is a dynamic condition and dynamically calculated market
levels are generally hands down winners over those that are statistically calculated,
such as fixed money stops.
Now, I understand that some of you may hesitate to take Logical Profit Objectives
because you lack adequate entry techniques that will get you back into the market, once
you exit. Part of that problem is addressed below. Most of it will be answered when we
study advanced Fibonacci Analysis, DiNapoli Levels™, CHAPTERS 9, 10, and 11.

=== PAGE 137 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 119
STRATEGY 2:
The Detrended Oscillator can be used as a filter for any entry technique.
I had a high percentage of poor entries before I knew about, and understood, high quality
entry techniques. An entry is not only poor if it ends up in losses, it's also poor if it puts
you under significant pressure before the market goes your way. I dramatically reduced
these unfortunate situations by the use of the Detrended Oscillator to determine what
value of average Overbought/Oversold was apparent at my prescribed entry levels. If the
price level at entry exceeded approximately 65% of Overbought/Oversold, I simply
wouldn't take the trade. If the signal stayed in effect the following day, I would again look
at the Detrend, to see if the trade was now "safe." If you're unsure of how to set up the
Detrend on your equipment, you can try this. Go to your Oscillator Set Up menu, take
the one day Moving Average of the close (which is the close), minus the seven day simple
Moving Average of the close. That should work... then, just look at the value of the
Oscillator at the time your entry signal is given and see how Overbought or Oversold the
market is, before you act.4
4 If you have the Oscillator Predictor™, these levels can be calculated ahead of time and are automatically
printed out in the support resistance table, a feature of the CIS TRADING PACKAGE, TIMESAVER
function.

=== PAGE 138 ===

120 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 7-4
Consider Chart 7-4 and imagine a simple system where you would be long when price is
above the MA on close and short when the price is below the MA on close. I have
pictured a non-displaced 12 day simple MA because that's typical of what many traders
use. Two buy signals have been selected for this example.
The thinking here is simple and obvious. If you take a buy signal in a highly OB situation
(unsafe), it is likely to produce more pain than one taken at a reasonable (safe) level of
OB/OS. In this case, both signals would have produced profit for you, if you weren't
bored or frightened out of the trade, i.e. if you stayed with the system criteria. If,
however, the system criteria carried an intraday stop, or if the stop was tightened, the
unsafe entry may have produced a significant loss.

=== PAGE 139 ===

Chapter 7 Overbought & Oversold Oscillators 121
VOLATILITY BREAKOUT:
I recognize that volatility breakout players might be upset by this strategy, but I think
there is nothing wrong with letting the market calm down a bit before entry. Will you
miss some good trades? Of course! Will you miss being stopped out many times? Of
course! Will the net effect be positive? I think it will. But, test this strategy on your own
and see what you think. Many traders are in this game for excitement, not for profit.
Some traders can comfortably tolerate 30% or 40% winning trades. I can't. You need to
figure out where you fit in.
STRATEGY 3:
An OB/OS level can be used for stop placement.
If you observe the price corresponding to the value of maximum Overbought or maximum
Oversold, you can simply put your stop behind that level by some comfortable margin, a
few 32nds in the bonds or perhaps 50 points in the S&P. But, you have to be careful how
the order reads. If you are using the close minus Moving Average, as suggested above,
you should have a stop close only. If you want a physical, intraday stop, use the high or
low minus the Moving Average, depending upon whether you are short or long the
market. These Oscillator values will be respectively higher and lower than the Oscillator
calculated using the close, and will produce correspondingly different stops. (See Chart 7-
5). I'll guarantee you one thing, your stop won't be located where other stops are, unless
by accident. Also, your stop is dynamic, every day it's moved. It should go without
saying, that you're within money management parameters, and that whatever signal placed
you in the trade remains in effect.

=== PAGE 140 ===

122 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 7-5
The best time to use Strategy 3 is when you have a lot of confidence in your entry
techniques. This implies that you don't want to be bothered by close stops and that you
choose to give these methods the time and space they require to work. I'll give you two
possible examples.
Larry Williams has come up with a variety of high risk, potentially high profit, non-
judgmental systems, usually based on some form of pattern recognition. One problem
however, is that some of these systems carry a "stop close" only, or no stop at all on the
day of entry. This makes some systems users understandably uncomfortable. An
alternative would be to hide your (intraday) stop, as suggested in Strategy 3.
When we get to Fibonacci techniques, you will see on occasion, the desirability of an
initial, far away, or disaster stop. Strategy 3 can provide an answer to the question,
where should the stop be placed? This stop is almost never hit. If the original entry signal
is negated, I simply exit "at market," or at the first retracement in the Direction of my
entry. Then I cancel the disaster stop.
Realize that if the market is Oversold, a maximum Overbought stop will be miles away.
But if the market is nearing Overbought, the stop will be relatively much closer. You can
adjust the level of stop placement by using a lower percentage of average Overbought and
Oversold, but I would suggest not going below 70%.