

=== PAGE 241 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 223
CHART 13-4
Our actual entry would be above the .382 Node. Our stop would go under the .618 Node
or against the old low at 1. We've bought insurance which may of may not be costly
depending on what market action actually develops around the selected D-Level entry 'X.'
With the benefit of hindsight, we can explore a variety of possibilities.

=== PAGE 242 ===

224 DiNapoli Levels.
POSSIBILITY 1:
CHART 13-5
If we had support very near 'X,' our stop at 'Z' wouldn't have been hit and our actual
entry "would have been higher than an entry at 'X.' Our insurance policy in this case
would be costly as represented by the distance between the arrows on Chart 13-5. Don't
misinterpret this. The cost is between our original D-Level choice 'X' and our actual
entry, not between our actual entry and our stop. Of course, we might not get the fill in
the form of an expected retracement back to our actual entry, but it's likely we will.

=== PAGE 243 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 225
POSSIBILITY 2:
SOME BENEFITS
CHART 13-6
Let's assume the expected support area at 'X' was deeply penetrated, all the way through
'Z,' to a deeper Node or Confluence area 'K.' 'Y' in Chart 13-6 represents a Bonsai
money stop. It's included here, as well as the Bushes stop, so the Bonsai players among
you can see the effects of possibility 2. In this scenario, we would have been stopped out
if utilizing the Bonsai or Bushes entry tactic. Waiting for the Minesweeper entry
prevented getting stopped out. Additional advantage was achieved since we entered at a
lower price than the original D-Level location at 'X.' So we achieved some significant
benefits utilizing this tactic under these conditions.

=== PAGE 244 ===

226 DiNapoli Levels.
POSSIBILITY 3:
If we essentially had no support, as in an illiquid market, then we avoid a big ouch by
utilizing the Minesweeper entry!
SIGNIFICANT BENEFIT
CHART 13-7

=== PAGE 245 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 227
MINESWEEPER B: AN ENTRY AND STOP PLACEMENT TECHNIQUE
This technique attempts to buy more insurance by placing the actual entry above a
Confluence area, rather than simply above a Node. The stop would have a greater degree
of protection since is located below a Confluence area. You might say the bush is larger
and thicker. This is what a line chart of Minesweeper B would look like. You have
several choices of entry, above the first .382 Node, above Confluence, or even above the
Primary .618 Node (not shown.) You have choices for your stop as well. Below
Confluence, below the .618 Node, or against the low at Point 1.
CHART 13-8
Both Minesweeper A & B are typically employed by dropping the Time Frame to achieve
more reaction lows from which to calculate, the DiNapoli level, after support is manifest.
This is a good example of why it is so helpful for daily-based players to have access to
hourly charts, even if they are developed from a delayed data feed. See CHAPTER 1.

=== PAGE 246 ===

228 DiNapoli Levels.
ENTRY TACTICS USED ON AN HOURLY S&P:
The following example shows how some of the tactics look when applied to an hourly
S&P.
CHART 13-9
In Chart 13-9, we have a strong up move in the hourly S&P. We'll assume the daily and
hourly Trend is up and that we'd like to get long this market. We'll also assume a highly
overbought level at 70%, so we don't want to get in too quickly and once we're in, we
don't want to get "married" to the trade. Our final assumption is that the higher Time
Frame Fibnode resistance locations will not affect our trade, i.e. they are not in play within
and somewhat beyond the price range shown on this chart.

=== PAGE 247 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 229
The Fib series printout below reflects the Focus and Reaction Numbers shown on Chart
13-9. I have not shown the Confluence area, since by now you should be able to locate it
on your own by comparing top and bottom Nodes.
Focus Number FileSPM602 Focus# (High for the swing)
Point Number Support Fib Nodes Point# (Enter highest reaction low first)
Okay Hank, where do you get long?
Hyper Hank: Before I answer that, I 'd like to know why we don 7 have the first reaction
about four bars to the left of the Focus Number included in here. It's valid, isn 't it?
Yes, it's a valid Reaction Number, but the trade criteria was that we were overbought.
We are not looking for the highest possible entry level (See CHAPTER 7). If we were
looking for a higher entry level, and we had the capacity, we'd drop our Time Frame to a
30 minute or a five minute chart. This reaction and others that we can't see on the hourly,
would be included in a shorter Time Frame series.
Hyper Hank: Okay, Okay, I've got it. Well, I'd enter above 76812 and put my stop below
Confluence at 76473. But I don 7 like that as a stop.
Why not?
Hyper Hank: It's over a 300 point stop; I can only trade one contract!

=== PAGE 248 ===

230 DiNapoli Levels.
What would you really like to do?
Hyper Hank: I'd like to find out where the Fibnodes are to that first reaction and put my
stop under one of them.
What do you say Dan?
Diligent Dan: I'// enter above Confluence at 76480. Then I'll use a Bushes stop below
the lower end of Confluence at 76425.
Why?
Diligent Dan: If the trade is good, Confluence will probably hold and the next Bushes
stop is under 76257. That's a minor Fibnode, so I 'm not excited about using it.
What's Carl going to do?
Conservative Carl: Since we are so overbought, I'll wait to enter the lower Confluence
area between 75871 and 75985. I'll buy it at 75875 and use a Bushes stop below the
75135 Primary Node. I know it's a big stop, but I've made an arrangement with my
friend who's afraid to trade the S&P alone, to take half of my S&P trades. With a half of
a 1 lot, the stop isn't too bad.
Have you had him deposit money into your account?
Conservative Carl: No, but I'm sure he 'II pay me if something goes wrong.
HMMM...

=== PAGE 249 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 231
Let's see how the trade worked out on Chart 13-10.
CHART 13-10
Hank saw the market just miss his entry so without telling anyone, later that day he
canceled his entry and went in at the market on a 10 lot (not shown because he didn't tell
us.) He put a Bonsai 55 point stop under his entry level. He got both fills back at the
same time. The floor loves Hank. So does his dentist, he went through another bite plate.
Dan got his fill and his stop was never hit. He opted for the .618 Primary resistance Node
as his LPO, since the market was overbought. Because his closing order was in the
market prior to the next day's open, he did even a little better than he expected.
Carl was too nervous to watch the market after the big thrust down bar that filled Dan's
order. He was very relieved when he came back from tending the garden, to see that he
was never filled.
THE TRADE CONTINUES (Chart 13-11):
On the second dip down, Dan waited for a Minesweeper entry after the low was formed at
758.30. He did this for two reasons. Dan saw the thrust down on the hourly chart and it
made him nervous, since it was the second time down after up thrust. Although he didn't
use the 3X3 on an hourly chart, this formation was looking a bit like a Double RePo sell.
He also could not discern a reasonable stop level.

=== PAGE 250 ===

232 DiNapoli Levels.
Carl left his orders as they were, reasoning that nothing significant had changed to impact -
the original trade criteria. The daily Trends were still in his favor!
Hank was not playing this one. While he watched the screen, he was once again busily
calling relatives and friends trying to raise capital.
CHART 13-11
Let's see how this trade worked out:
Carl was filled and his stop was never hit. He and his partner took an almost perfect OP
out on the trade (See Chart 13-13).
Dan's Minesweeper entry was filled and his stop against the preceding low was never hit.
He noticed the RR track about an hour after his initial entry and doubled up his position
by recalculating the Fibnodes and entering more long positions at the .382 Node. He
blew out all his positions on the same OP in Chart 13-13 that Carl got out on. Chart 13-
12 shows his entry and stop points. Upon reexamination of his trade criteria, Dan
realized he had missed the Agreement between the Confluence area Carl and he had gone
long against and the XOP of the down move, as shown on Chart 13-12. He wasn't
concerned about it, however, since he had just booked $12,000 per contract in two days.
He needed some R&R and was off to another vacation, this time to Bangkok. After
making some notes about the trade, which he always did, he was off to catch a plane.

=== PAGE 251 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 233
CHART 13-12
CHART 13-13

=== PAGE 252 ===

234 DiNapoli Levels.
Objective points for Chart 13-13:
30 Apr 97 13:44:35 Updated: 00/00/0000 0.618 1.618
Point Value Objective Points File SPM301
A = 74950 COP = 77319
B = 77360 OP «= 78240
C = 75830 XOP = 79729
Copyright (c) 1996 CIS, Inc.
WASH AND RINSE: A CONFIDENCE BUILDER
This pattern is more in the category of a hint or a clue than a tactic. Let's say you have
consolidation above a DiNapoli Level but the market has refused to get in gear and move
to the upside. Then, suddenly, all stops have been cleaned up (taken out) and on a lower
Time Frame chart, you begin to get some thrust. The fact that the D-Level has been
briefly penetrated is not of concern.
There are a variety of examples showing the Wash and Rinse phenomenon in this book.
Some are shown in Chapter 15. The Wash and Rinse does not have to occur at a D-Level,
it's just easier to play if it does.
Why does this work? The idea here is that once the market has been cleaned up, the floor
has no incentive to go lower. Another possibility is that a search of lower levels by market
participation has found substantial buying. A third more cynical interpretation would
indicate that whatever entity, or trader(s) that wished to accumulate a significant position
is now satisfied (by buying the consolidation as well as the sell stops). This entity or
individual, now satisfied, has no incentive to hold the market back by acting to force a
consolidation area to be formed. In any case, all those who were stopped out, who wish
to participate, must reenter at higher levels. All intraday Trend indicators start to point up
and it's time to get involved. If you exited1 or were stopped out, it's time to reenter, by
using one of the entry techniques described above.
1 DiNapoli, "Three Period Rule," FIBONACCI MONEY MANAGEMENT AND TREND ANALYSIS in
home trading course.

=== PAGE 253 ===

Chapter 13 Fibonacci Tactics 235
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Which technique is best? What should I use?
That's up to the psychological make up of each trader. There is no single answer. When
you become thoroughly familiar with each tactic by observing market action and the
consequences that each action would have created, you will inherently choose one or the
other. Experience in a given market situation will also tend to dictate the appropriate
strategy.
Most of my trades are variations on Bushes. I use the other strategies when they seem
more appropriate.
Minesweeper B seems complicated. You give up a lot before you get in, so why even
bother with it?
It is more complicated but still relatively easy to employ, particularly if the context, or set
up, is on longer Time Frame charts, say hourly and above. Whether or not it is costly
depends upon how much support develops on, or around the selected entry Node. Refer
to the Minesweeper section earlier in this chapter if you don't understand this point.
Isn't the Minesweeper technique just a variation of Bushes, after you see support where
you initially wanted to enter?
Yes! I've attached a different name to this strategy and treat it differently to illustrate its
applicability.
While all the examples above are shown for long entries, they work equally well on the
short side.

=== PAGE 254 ===

 

=== PAGE 255 ===

CHAPTER
AVOIDING A TYPICAL MISTAKE
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Trading requires constant and focused vigilance. The professional distinguishes himself
by making Mistakes less often than the neophyte. He cannot hope to avoid them
altogether. By studying this next example, see if you can avoid misinterpreting a
situation similar to the one depicted and in so doing avoid some unnecessary losses.
This example is based on monthly data, however the same thought process it imposes can
be applied to an hourly or a five minute chart.
YEARLY BOND EXAMPLE:
Consider the labeling of the following US bond monthly continuation chart and the
accompanying FibNodes™ printout, which shows three reaction lows and a Focus
Number of 12210.

=== PAGE 256 ===

238 DiNapoli Levels

=== PAGE 257 ===

Chapter 14 Avoiding A Typical Mistake 239
We will be focusing on price action in the vicinity of the .382 Primary Node to see what
we might learn about future price Movement. However, if you had been trading bonds
from higher levels and from a shorter Time Frame chart, it would have been reasonable to
assume significant D-Level support at all of the support Nodes shown. This is because all
of these Nodes were created from important monthly reactions, not from a half hour chart.
If you look at the daily and weekly charts, you'll find at a minimum, respectable rallies in
the vicinity of all of these price levels. Consider how this would have helped you, even on
a five minute chart!
When we're analyzing whether or not a long term bull market is still intact, we look to our
trend indicators on the weekly and monthly charts. We can also observe whether or not
the Primary '*'.382 Node has been broken or if a major Confluence area has been
penetrated. If major support has been broken, it obviously signals more weakness than if
it holds. Such a break could indicate a major change in the Movement of the market. By
looking at the monthly D-Level series shown in File BDMOPA2, 10423 appears to be the
Primary .382 Node. In fact, it is a Fibnode generated from a Major Reaction, not the
Primary Reaction low, as we will see. While the penetration of 10423 correctly forecasted
lower prices, it is not nearly as serious as a break of the Node created from the Primary
Reaction low.
When 10423 was penetrated, I expected a move down to the vicinity of 10013, since that
was the next Fibnode support. (See the .618 retracement in Box 1). A reasonable long
entry (if suppbrted by context and an appropriate entry tactic) would be in the vicinity of
10013. A reasonable stop placement area appears to be just under the.618 Fibnode at
9815, in Box 2. It would also seem reasonable to expect that closes below 9815 for a
significant period of time, would indicate much lower prices, perhaps a move down to the
last Fibnode support shown in box 3, all the way down to 9326!
While all this seems to be good analysis, an error is being made. What's on the screen, i.e.
what we see on Chart 14-1, is not representative of what we need for adequate analysis.

=== PAGE 258 ===

240 DiNapoli Levels
Consider Chart 14-2 of the same US bond continuous contract. In this depiction, reaction
lows back to 1981 are included.
CHART 14-2

=== PAGE 259 ===

Chapter 14 Avoiding A Typical Mistake 24l
28 Apr 97 11:48:55 Updated: 00/00/0000 0.382 0.618
Focus Number File BDM04 Focus# (High for the swing) /in 32nds/
Point Number Support Fibnodes Point# (Enter highest reaction low first)
When we look at the D-Level series printout that includes these reaction lows, we get a
substantially different picture. Now we see that 9621 is the '*'.382 Node, not 9815! We
can also see monthly Confluence between 9809 and 9815. This more complete picture
and the accompanying Ftbnode series has changed the analysis significantly. For one
thing the last place we would want our stop would be at, or above, the Confluence range
of 9809 to 9815. We would certainly want to get below that and we're not looking for
9325 with the Primary Node of 9621 coming in substantially before that!
Now, on Chart 14-1 notice the market action around both the Confluence area, and the
.382 Primary Node at 9621. Price came down to the vicinity of the 9815 level, supported,
then broke to 9601 briefly, thus exceeding both the Confluence area and the '*'.382 Node.
Since this is a monthly chart, "briefly" differs from what "briefly" would mean on a five
minute chart. The Confluence area was only temporarily broken and the monthly
continuation never closed below the 9815 Fibnode! The bond market merely reacted back
to the '*'.382 Node, i.e. the Fibnode created from the lowest low recorded in the history

=== PAGE 260 ===

242 DiNapoli Levels
of the US bonds futures. Our conclusion, based on the proper analysis, can confidently be
that the bull market remains intact and as we can see, prices returned to the old high at
122 in just a few months.
- Admittedly, it's easy to say "merely reacted" back to the '*' .382 Node. If you were
holding 50 contracts of bonds on the long side, it wouldn't have seemed all that "mere."
What you need to understand, however, is that all this analysis must be relative to the
Time Frame you are analyzing. Observing this type of action in the monthly continuation
chart can produce an excellent context for your shorter Time Frame trades!
On a five minute chart I like to see a major retracement back to the Primary Node. It
cleans up the rmarket and allows for an orderly move back up, perhaps to higher prices.
It's no different in the higher Time Frames. I have to be sure, however, that what I think
is the Primary Node is in fact the Primary Node for the Market Swing I am analyzing.
THE BROADER PICTURE:
This type of analysis is not confined to the typical financial markets we trade daily. When
Orange County, California, real estate prices crashed from their highs around 1990,
everyone was ready to throw in the towel. Orange County itself went into bankruptcy a
few years later. Chicken Little was screaming!
Let's look at an admittedly unscientific but telling D-Level analysis. For ground rules
we'll keep certain things constant, like the same type and class of home and the same
general neighborhood. We'll also consider a class of home that has always had reasonably
good liquidity characteristics. We're not talking lumber contracts here. We're talking the
real estate equivalent of T-bonds, your 1200-1500 square foot, two or three bedroom,
middle-class, love cottage.
In the early 70s, home values approximated the cost of building which was fairly constant.
Inflation was reasonable. Things really started to move with values traveling almost
vertically and uninterrupted into the Carter "tight money days" of the early 80s. Our
generic love cottage preceding the 20% prime interest rate and 55 on the US 30 year bond
futures, was about $115,000. From that high, our cottage reacted back to about $90,000.
When interest rates came back within reason, the move up resumed reaching a high of
about $215,000, a bit above an OP extension.