

=== PAGE 21 ===

CHAPTER 1
TRADING METHODSJUDGMENTAL VS. NON-JUDGMENTAL TRADING SYSTEMS
POSITION TRADING VS. INTRADAY TRADING
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Judgmental approaches call upon the trader to make decisions within a given criteria or
context, while non-judgmental systems are strictly mechanical.
The trading methodology I use involves judgment. It's the way I like to trade. I believe
judgmental techniques have inherent advantages over non-judgmental techniques.
Flexibility as inspired by the human mind, and the speed with which necessary
adjustments can be made to respond to changing market conditions are two of the
strongest reasons to trade using judgment. I know from teaching however, that many of
you have preconceived notions about different approaches to trading that are inconsistent
with reality. Since achievement in any field first involves some fundamental
understanding, Tthought it might be in your best interest to spend a little time looking at
certain realities of basic trading approaches. First we'll go through a reality check, then
some history, so you can see why and how I have reached certain conclusions. We'll
consider judgmental vs. non-judgmental trading methods then position vs. intraday
trading approaches.

=== PAGE 22 ===

4 DiNapoli Levels
REALITY CHECK:
The Beach Boys had a song many of you should remember that began, " Wouldn't it be
nice ...." It extolled the virtues and fun of constant companionship, where lovers could
skip through the daisies to the never-never land of untold bliss. After not so many years,
some of the Beach Boys themselves had to face the realities of married life, legal hassles in
divorce court being one. Some who have avoided such a fate would privately admit that
their former soul mates have become little more than dents in the bed next to them.
Are things always that bad between expectation and reality? Of course not. With enough
effort, we can hopefully end up somewhere in between. Likewise, such is the promise of
both judgmental methods and non-judgmental trading systems. Let's look at non-
judgmental trading systems first.
NON-JUDGMENTAL APPROACHES:
WOULDN'T IT BE NICE...
1. Once you have the development in place, your research and your work is
over. Your trading system is fixed, stationary, and immutable. Stress is
non-existent since the decision-making process is out of your hands and in
the purview of a machine. Thorough and precise (hypothetical) testing
techniques have left little to chance. Everything has been taken into
consideration so your confidence is strong.
2. You can arrange for signals to be implemented by a hired trader or
broker and thereby avoid the tedium of monitoring the markets yourself.
3. "It" - i.e. the "system," the "program," the "solution" - can generate an
' adequate income flow which will enable you to go to Fiji and stick your
toes in the sand. Perhaps "it" can even pay the alimony and child support
while you find a new soul mate to take the place of the dent in the bed.
THE REALITY...
1. The work never ends. When system historical extremes are exceeded,
you're back to tweaking, testing, and massaging the parameters.

=== PAGE 23 ===

Chapter I Trading Methods 5
1 A. In fact, you better have two independent systems, or
maybe three, or four, to even out the equity swings. Oh
yes, there will not only be some tweaking and
massaging, it's more likely that outright replacement of
a system or two will occur, as one or the other goes
sour altogether.
IB. What about stress? You don't know stress until
you experience pervasive impotence. You feel utterly
helpless to effect results as you watch your system(s)
dictate one absurd order after another. You just know
that profit is going to evaporate and go to a loss. When
that happens, you can't do anything but watch and obey
the signals it generates. Hey Mack, pass the Maalox®,
NOW!
1C. You learn that the $100 for slippage and
commission you thought was extravagant, was in fact
sorely inadequate. You forgot about limit moves, 40
tick runs without looking back, worst possible fill
situations and.... The data you did the testing with was
thought to be okay, but really wasn't all that good.
Your confidence in your testing techniques is hitting
new lows along with your account size.
2. The broker you have executing the trades seems to be missing entries on
some of the biggest moves and ... why couldn 't he get that stop right! Or,
the trader you hired can't help but put his vast experience (one year) to
work "improving" what you have struggled so long to perfect.
3. The only way to get enough capital to properly fund four systems over
the 15 futures contracts you have found necessary to trade for adequate
system diversification, is to take in, and manage money. Now you have
disclosure statements, CFTC (Commodities Futures Trading Commission)
oversight, a staff, and more NFA (National Futures Association)
compliance issues than you ever dreamed existed. You thought a
corporate tax return was hard to comply with? Now the manure is so
thick, you wonder if the daisies you planted will ever have an opportunity
to germinate, much less see the light of day.

=== PAGE 24 ===

6 DiNapoli Levels
WHAT ABOUT JUDGMENTAL APPROACHES?
WOULDN'T IT BE NICE..
1. You study under the best of the high-powered pros. You achieve a 90%
win ratio through unexcelled market understanding.
2. You live where you want, trade when you want, and rid yourself of the
employee hassles that have been bugging you for years.
3. You turn a modest amount of money, through skill and diligence, into a
veritable mountain of pure financial muscle. You leave an ever-growing
portion of it in a high-yielding money market account whose proceeds will
allow you to zip off to Fiji when you choose to and... well, you know the
rest of the story.
THE REALITY...
1. You learn from one high-powered pro, then from another high-powered
pro, and although you find some real benefit here and there, you're just
never able to achieve quite what you expected.
1A. In fact, it's been years now, and after $30,000 in
seminars, books, software, and trading courses, your
profit is only barely able to cover your cost of overhead.
You haven't been able to touch that $50,000 you're out
from past trading losses!
2. If you can't find a way to get really profitable and hit a big home run,
your savings will be gone in not so many months. You start wondering if
you will become someone else's employee.
3. The stress and time demands of constantly focusing on that screen, being
there for the open, and tangling with the overnight Globex session have
you wondering if you'll ever get to the local beach. As for Fiji, is there a
contract on them? What's the tick size and... where do Fijis trade?

=== PAGE 25 ===

Chapter 1 Trading Methods 1
Okay, things aren't quite as rosy or quite as bad as what I've outlined above, but they
easily can be. In fact, they can be worse! What follows are some unqualified observations
from my direct involvement: the odyssey / have experienced. This recantation of events
isn't hypothetical, it's real time living stated here, so you can see how I arrived at certain
conclusions. Then, perhaps you can better decide for yourself where you might best fit in.
SOME HISTORY:
Around 1980 I decided to investigate the futures markets. The plan was to switch from
the vehicles I had been trading to what I knew was the most demanding and potentially
rewarding game in town. The timing of the switch had to do with my view of my station
in life. By that time I was "well heeled" enough to take what I expected would be a rough
transition. I also thought my knowledge level and trading expertise were at a point where
this new challenge could be properly met. I quickly realized two things. It was a good
thing I had waited until I was "well heeled" and the challenge was a bit more than I had
anticipated. Here are the highlights of the odyssey, how I got started in, and eventually
became successful at trading futures.
After about a year of trading poorly, I managed a much sought-after meeting through a
social contact with an extremely successful and reclusive CTA. This man was reputed to
have made a bazzilian dollars over the past five years in agricultural futures. I wish I
could describe this bizarre individual to you, but perhaps someone would recognize him,
and one prerequisite for his tutelage was that I never reveal his identity. Of course, I
never have.
After a few pleasantries, this "cerebral" type began our get-together with a discussion of,
"What if you were a Martian and you came to earth to trade commodities." Hmm....
"You look at this action, that action, another action, and so on. Not being able to speak
English, you simply watch actions. Prices fluctuate." He went on, "You talk with your
Martian friends about these actions and you wonder about appropriate reactions." I
looked at him as if he were Moses holding the Commandments behind his back and
musing about the fit of his sandals. After an hour of this much cloaked "benefit," I was so
befuddled and confused I was willing to settle for which way soybeans might be going.
Hopefully that information would allow me to get back the cost of my travel to see him!
This man was the first of three mentors I was fortunate enough to have. Their kindness
and willingness to share with me weighed heavily in my decision to begin teaching in 1986.
So what was all this about Martians? It took me a while to figure it out, but he held the
key to the gold box and he wasn't about to share it with a stranger whose intentions,
interest, and sincerity were unknown. This meeting was the first of many that stretched
over a period of about three years. I learned a lot from this man who traded strictly and

=== PAGE 26 ===

8 DiNapoli Levels
competently from the basis of a non-judgmental system. But, strangely enough, none of
what I learned was what I was after in that first meeting. He taught me that:
1. There are no absolute heroes, only heroes for a while.
2. All non-judgmental systems eventually fail (stop making money). Your
hope is to be using one while it is working.
3. Excellent information can be gleaned from a true expert once trust,
eligibility, and pre-requisites in your knowledge base are established.
4. Non-judgmental systems are lucky to achieve 50% winning trades, 30%
is acceptable.
5. Trading a non-judgmental system is difficult and stressful. It requires
tremendous concentration, diligence, and self discipline.
6. There is an awesome level of challenge, fulfillment, and discovery in the
entire trading process.
LET'S ELABORATE ON SOME OF THESE POINTS:
1. HEROES:
It turns out my friend was a hero of truly epic proportions during
the market moves of the 70s. His non-judgmental, fundamentally
based, mathematical system was very cleverly put together. It fell
apart, however, after the inflation peak of the late 70s, and after
subsequent avenues of supplies (grains) opened up overseas.
2. SYSTEM FAILURE:
With substantial personal resources, cash, and experience, he
diligently proceeded with a staff and mainframes to replace what he
had lost. One of the more interesting dead ends he explored was a
detection of randomness, or lack thereof, to determine if a tradable
trend existed. It was sort of like a Directional Movement Index
gone mad. That one worked great for two years, then it stopped
making money. When later it bombed out, it bombed out big.
Through consultations with other traders, joint ventures and the
like, he was funneled down the corridor of many of my other
system-developing friends: i.e. that some form of volatility breakout

=== PAGE 27 ===

Chapter 1 Trading Methods 9
system seems to best handle the test of time. As most would agree,
however, these types of systems have a poor win/loss ratio and
generally take significant funds to employ due to their
diversification requirements. There was some additional hope
gleaned from all this number crunching: i.e. some systems can last
up to five or perhaps even 10 years before falling apart, and if you
happen to get on to one of those early on, you can do awfully well,
at least for a time.
3. APPRENTICESHIP:
My naive idea that this individual would share his earned
knowledge with me on our first encounter was absurd. That he
would recognize my sincerity and my obvious worthiness was also
absurd. It took years of doing for him, before he shared with me.
He knew I needed to be ready to hear what he had to tell me. He
also knew that when he told me what he knew, I would realize how
little he knew.
That's exactly what happened. When we reached that point, I went on. In the many
encounters with bright and successful traders of fixed systems in the ensuing 16 years, I
have not had reason to materially change what I had learned from my first mentor.
During the time I was working with this man, I ran into my first really good trading tip,
given to me by my second mentor. He was an extremely successful judgmental trader
who, I think out of pity, told me to study Displaced Moving Averages. Of course, after
telling me to study DMAs, he had to explain what they were. By doing so, he was finally
able to get me out of his presence and go back to his mainframe.
It seemed in those days the only truly successful traders I found all had mainframes and
they were incredibly eccentric and reclusive. I'd spent less than 15 minutes with this
person, but now I had a direction. Three years later when I compared the results of my
research with his, the similarities were astonishing. It took another 15 minutes to compare
our research. This was the second and final meeting I ever had with this man. Now I,
too, had a profitable and reasonably consistent judgmental method to trade.
The method wasn't all that hot however, about 50% winners, and it gave back a lot.
Although I had a reasonable methodology, I was totally unsatisfied. Necessity being the
mother of invention led to my first important independent discovery, the "Oscillator
Predictor™," a true leading indicator. With it, I was able to capture profit and avoid risky
entries.

=== PAGE 28 ===

10 DiNapoli Levels
It wasn't until my third mentor told me about an Italian mathematician named Fibonacci1,
that my techniques really began to click. Number three was also eccentric. He didn't own
a mainframe and was anything but reclusive. This man was certainly the most dazzling
trader I had ever met. Definitely judgmentally-based, I actually saw him nail down highs,
lows, intermediate rally highs, intermediate retracement lows. You name it! His trading
style went beyond any rational expectation I had ever entertained, and he did this live time
while I watched him! It wasn't until he taught me what he was doing in one short *
afternoon, that I discovered these techniques weren't nearly enough for consistent,
profitable trading. As experience (time) robbed yet another hero from me, I saw him go
from riches to rags, to insolvency, to debt. The Holy Grail sure seemed to have a lot of
holes that needed mending. After many, many years of my own experience, the following
hard-won conclusions make up the substance of the thread.
JUDGMENTAL TRADING:
1. The most important trading tool you have is not your computer, your
data service, or your methodology. IT'S YOU! If you're not right -you
don't trade.
1A. Trading breaks are essential, particularly for
intraday players. Three to seven day breaks every three
to six weeks is what I have determined is best for me.
IB. Take significant time off; about three to six months
every year, if you trade intraday, at least one to three
months if you trade daily-based or above.
1C. Four or five days a week spend at least one hour
doing something you like that does not involve the
markets or your computer. I like working with my
hands, restoring cars or otherwise fixing or building
things.
ID. The definition of a professional is one who makes
the least mistakes, not the one who makes no mistakes.
If you make one serious mistake, take yourself off
trading for three days. If you make three mistakes in a
short time period (over two consecutive days), take
yourself off trading for three days.
1 Leonardo de Pisa, was the son of Guilielmo Bonacci. In Italian, 'figlio' means 'son,' hence Tiglio
Bonacci,' which was shortened through the years to Fibonacci. He was a preeminent mathematician of
his time.

=== PAGE 29 ===

Chapter 1 Trading Methods 11
1E. If you violate rule ID, give $100,000 to the person
you dislike the most in the world. It may interest you to
know that of the many traders I have trained, I have
almost never seen anyone follow rule ID unless they
were forced to (no margin). A mistake is defined in
CHAPTER 2, under "Ground Rules and Definitions."
Mistakes will be cited and clarified throughout this
book. It's critical that you know if and when you make
a mistake .
1F. If you have not been trading for 10 days or more, do
not trade size (large positions) for at least one week.
1G. Separate yourself into two halves, the trader and the
manager. The trader cannot trade without the express
permission of the manager. The manager watches for
crucial signs of "fitness," e.g. mistakes, irritability, stress
in the trader's personal life, tell-tale black shading under
the eyes, excessive flatulence. Get the idea? It is the
manager's job to get the trader away from the phone
before the disaster occurs. Just look at the Barings
fiasco if you doubt the need for competent management.
In the late 80s, a local I had trained who had achieved consistent and considerable
profitability, began just as consistently, losing money. His personality seemed to be
undergoing a change and it was obvious his personal life was under some stress. I first
suspected drugs, but on further reflection I narrowed it down. One night when we were
talking market and he was complaining bitterly about "unexplained" losses, I asked him
how long it was before his new child was to be born. "Three months," he said, "and how
the hell did you know?"
By this time, you should be able to see the importance of being "fit" to trade. Systems or
methods allowing for discretion are dependent on the quality of that discretion both in
execution and size. If the discretion goes, you can wipe out in a week what it has taken
you months to accumulate.
2. There are knowledgeable, honest, and sincere traders available who like
to teach and have the qualifications to make themselves understood. Seek
them out, get their material if you can afford it, and befriend them. Much
of what they can offer to you in casual conversation will be invaluable to
your success. Someone helped them. Approach them correctly and if they
can, they will help you.

=== PAGE 30 ===

12 DiNapoli Levels
3. Judgmental trading can lead to incredibly favorable win/loss ratios.
Don't let them go to your head.
3 A. If you attain dramatic profits very quickly, your ego
can blow way out of proportion. Always remember you
are only one trade away from humility.
4. During the trading decision-making time, you can afford no
interruptions. None! Zero! If your office is in your home and you trade
intraday, get a lock to separate yourself from anyone sharing the premises
and use it. If this presents a problem with your wife or family, don't trade
or get a different wife and family.
One of my clients, a chiropractor, who traded out of his home in northern California, was
warned about this repeatedly. This individual suffered a $40,000 loss when his wife
casually walked over and dropped their infant in his arms just before a crop report.
Experience can be a tough teacher but to many it's the only teacher.
5. The speed with which you can adapt to changing market conditions is
considerably faster with a judgmental rather than a non-judgmental trading
approach. This can prevent those huge drawdowns that can accompany
blind (fixed) system failures. For those engineers who are reading this,
consider a mechanical feedback system that dampens and focuses responses
as a function of the speed of the transducers. If the feedback system is
quick enough, it keeps up with the changes. But if it gets behind, it can go
180 degrees out of phase and tear itself up! It works the same with
trading.
6. Trading a judgmental system is difficult, requires tremendous
concentration, diligence, and self discipline.
7. There is tremendous challenge, fulfillment, and discovery in the entire
trading process.
The bottom line is that there are certain inherent advantages and disadvantages to either
market trading approach. I have chosen the judgmental approach. It is largely a question
of matching your talents, your psyche, your financial resources, and your objectives with
the challenges and advantages cited above. There is no way I've ever seen of avoiding a
lot of work and a lot of stress. Prepare yourself for it, or if it's too hot, get out of the
kitchen now!

=== PAGE 31 ===

Chapter 1 Trading Methods 13
SUMMARY:
ASPECTS OF JUDGMENTAL TRADING TECHNIQUES:
1. You can benefit from an extremely flexible market approach.
2. You will have a highly flexible personal schedule.
3. You have the potential for dramatic gains (or losses) quickly.
4. You will have potentials for extremely favorable win/loss ratios.
5. There is an absolute necessity for strict personal management.
6. There is an absolute necessity for a separate and adequate trading environment.
7. Relatively "small" amounts of capital can be adequate to achieve your goals.
8. Your focus on relatively few markets is not only acceptable, but preferable.
ASPECTS OF NON-JUDGMENTAL TRADING TECHNIQUES:
1. Poor win/loss ratios are the rule not the exception.
2. Historical hypothetical testing techniques are typically badly flawed for a wide
variety of reasons.
3. Most non-judgmental systems ultimately fail; the aim is to attempt to use one
while it's working.
4. Volatility breakout systems seem to best stand the test of time.
5. Multiple systems, traded over a wide variety of markets are necessary to smooth
out the equity curve.
6. Relatively large amounts of capital are necessary for system and market
i diversification, as well as for the inevitable drawdowns.
7. If system and market diversification is achieved, large amounts of capital are
employable.
°. Constant implementation of trading signals is essential, i.e. no breaks.

=== PAGE 32 ===

14 DiNapoliLevels
9. Locating adequate help to implement the system signals is a challenge in itself.
ASPECTS OF NON-JUDGMENTAL AND JUDGMENTAL TRADING:
1. An excellent life style is attainable if trading goals are met.
2. Fulfillment, challenge, and discovery are possible outcomes of the trading
experience.
3. Stress levels can lead to utter destruction of your psyche and physical self, if not
properly managed.
4. Financial ruin will accompany a frivolous or ill-advised approach.
5. The work load is awesome and unending; it must be properly managed.
6. You will have the potential to meet, and have as friends and colleagues, some
of the best and brightest individuals on the planet.

=== PAGE 33 ===

Chapter I Trading Methods 15
POSITION TRADING VS. INTRADAY TRADING
You not only have to decide whether to trade judgmentally or non-judgmentally, you also
have to consider the time frame that best suits you. Then, you need to be sure the time
period you have chosen is best for the approach you are using.
With respect to applying the methodology this book teaches, it is easy. Essentially you
apply the same general criteria to a five minute chart that you would apply to a monthly.
Where you best belong is the tougher question.
My experience indicates that it's suicidal for a new trader, operating off the floor, to trade
intraday. What's "new?" "New" is anyone trading actively for less than one year. If you
are a part time or casual trader, you had better give it three to five years before going to
intraday trading. The better question is however: What's intraday? My definition would
be a trader who is actively observing price action during the day and making decisions
based on what he believes is unfolding at that time.
A daily-based (or above) trader may choose an entry or exit point to be acted upon during
the next day without being construed as being an intraday player.
What's a position player? The true answer is, it depends on perspective. To a floor
trader, the five minute trader is a position player. To a daily-based trader, a weekly-based
trader is a position trader, and so on. For our purposes however, we'll consider a position
trader as daily-based or above. As you drop the time frame, the decision making time is
compressed and the stress is increased. As you drop the time frame, the number of
decisions increase radically. You have seven times the number of decisions going from
daily- to hourly-based, 12 times the number of decisions, going from hourly to five minute.
The opportunity is certainly accelerated, but I wouldn't expect a savvy boxing promoter to
put a promising newcomer into the ring with Mike Tyson, just to see if he could learn to
handle the big time more quickly. After all, he might lose more than his ears in the
process!

=== PAGE 34 ===

16 DiNapoli Levels
DISADVANTAGES OF INTRADAY TRADING
1. You need experience - lots of it - with particular emphasis on order entry
techniques and a thorough understanding of floor operations.
2. You need excellent brokerage and clearing services.
3. You have high overhead costs in software, quote delivery fees,
equipment, and transaction costs.
4. So much of your time is taken up by the trading activity, you can't make
money doing anything else.
5. Stress levels increase dramatically.
ADVANTAGES OF INTRADAY TRADING
1. You can trade many more contracts with a given amount of capital.
2. You will have many more trading opportunities than a position trader.
3. If your trading capital is severely limited and you are otherwise
qualified, you have trading opportunities that will allow for much closer
stops. Obviously the typical range on a five minute bar is smaller than the
typical range of a daily bar. This point is really a variation of #1.
You should be able to restate the above to define the advantages and disadvantages of
being a position trader.

=== PAGE 35 ===

Chapter I Trading Methods 17
AN ALTERNATIVE:
Given today's technology, there is a way to gain substantial benefits from a mix of the
traditional paths. Here's how it works.
Get delayed intraday quotes from a quality vendor and have the capacity to display the
bars graphically on an intraday basis. You can use, let's say 30 & 60 minute time frames,
to help make daily-based decisions that can be acted on during the next day. The idea is
to come home after work and make your decisions in the relative calm of the evening with
the added accuracy and flexibility of intraday charting capability. You can set stops,
entries, and such to be acted on during the next day. It may even be possible to set up
some contingency orders, depending on your work environment and/or brokerage
relationships. The advantages are substantial. You avoid the need for excellent brokerage
services and a thorough understanding of floor operations. You avoid expensive software,
on-line feeds, and equipment. You can make money doing something else. You can trade
somewhat more contracts and have far greater opportunity than a traditional position
player, and have closer stops. The analysis of your trading opportunities will be thorough.
What is most important, however, is that you will operate with less stress than an intraday
player, giving you an opportunity to grow into the trading experience rather than to be
intimidated by its nature and seeming unpredictability. These are the options; pick your
poison.

=== PAGE 36 ===

 

=== PAGE 37 ===

CHAPTER
PREREQUISITES,
GROUND RULES, & DEFINITIONS
PREREQUISITES:
You should understand that this is not a book on basic technical analysis. It is a book
about a modular and comprehensive trading approach that I have found to be both
prudent and highly effective. Although I always attempt to start a discussion at a base
level of assumed understanding, it is presumed that you have a working knowledge of
certain well-known technical tools. If you do not understand Moving Averages,
Stochastics, MACD, RSI, and the general appearance of price vs. time charts, there are a
number of books listed in the reference section which you should consult before
proceeding any further.
GROUND RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
Before we can hope to arrive at an understanding of my trading methodology, we have to
be sure we're on the same page, i.e. that certain terms and concepts mean the same thing
to both of us. To emphasize the specific meaning I attach to each of the defined terms,
they will be capitalized throughout the text, i.e. Trend, Direction, Movement, and so on.
TREND:
A favorite question I ask when teaching is, "What is the current Trend of the S&P, bonds,
or whatever?" Invariably I get the response, "Up, down, or sideways." Seldom am I

=== PAGE 38 ===

20 DiNapoli Levels
asked, "In what Time Frame?" The question, "What's the current Trend of...?", without
specifying the Time Frame is meaningless.
Below is a series of four charts. Let's use the Displaced Moving Average (DMA) overlaid
on these charts as a Trend delineator. The length and type of this DMA is not the relevant
issue. Our definition of Trend is the relevant issue. If we define an up Trend as a close
above this DMA, and a down Trend as a close below this DMA, you can see the variety of
Trend statements we can get on the close of the same day, February 28th. The bonds are
in an up Trend on the 15 minute chart, but in a down Trend on the daily. The Trend is
down weekly-based, but up monthly-based. If your trading methodology uses Trend as a
part of its defining characteristic and you don't know your Time Frame, you are lost.
CHART 2-1

=== PAGE 39 ===

Chapter 2 Prerequisites, Ground Rides & Definitions 21
CHART 2-2
CHART 2-3

=== PAGE 40 ===

22 DINapoli Levels
Furthermore, if I predefine the Trend by a set
of indicators or by other criteria, I cannot
make the determination of what the Trend is
without the required criteria, regardless of
how a chart may appear subjectively.
Consider the following two charts. They are
both daily segments of the monthly chart
shown above. Chart 2-5 is shown without our
predefined Trend indicator, the DMA. It
would be easy to say the daily Trend is up, if
you looked only at the sample of data shown
in Chart 2-5.CHART 2-4
CHART 2-5