

=== PAGE 61 ===

Chapter 4 Trend Analysis Displaced Moving Averages 43
CHART 4-3B
The profit differential on Chart 4-3B is a different matter. Here we have a longer term
standard MA. It falls dramatically away from market action. Therefore, a non-judgmental
system whose signals are based on crossing a MA on close to take an open profit (P2), is
likely to give back significantly more than the shorter period DMA would give back (PI).
How would you trade this?
I wouldn't. Trading any given market will come only after this book has thoroughly
covered all the aspects needed to trade. The examples contained herein are for your
understanding of the segment covered.
What did you mean about blowing (he price delineation point 'N' periods forward in
time?
The term 'N' refers to the displacement amount. If we're talking about daily periods, the
3X3 is displaced three days forward in time. You know the DMA value of the current
day, two days, and three days ahead of time, i.e. the price point that will delineate trend.
If there was no displacement (N=0) then you wouldn't even know until the close what the
Moving Average value was for the current day, since you need that value to calculate the
Moving Average.

=== PAGE 62 ===

44 DiNapoli Levels
Years ago, traders used the opening price rather than the close to calculate the Moving
Average value, so they would know ahead of the close what the MA was for the current
day. I believe the first series of workshops I gave in 1986 and 1987 discussing the
advantage of DMAs was instrumental in the demise of this practice.
What about exponential MAs, weighted MAs, or "back-deviated Maxwell convoluted"
MAs? Would they work better? Do the Displaced Moving Averages you use work in all
markets?
You're welcome to try them. I arrived at the DMAs cited above over a period of about
two and a half years, cranking them out on a CPM based computer using an 8088 chip. I
studied thousands of charts, in all manner of markets, in all types of conditions. I tried
every kind of MA I could imagine and have programmed. In those days there was no
commercially available software I was aware of that created DMAs. To accomplish this
task I needed to create a graphics package that would displace a Moving Average. The
result was the first incarnation of the CIS TRADING PACKAGE, programmed by George
Damusis. My research revealed no advantage in more complicated DMAs, over simple
DMAs. Therefore in keeping with my primary directive, i.e. keep everything as simple as
possible, I stuck with simple DMAs.
It's also useful to understand that I did not go through this optimization process, so
popular with many of the computer junkies and cerebral types. Instead, I exhaustively
examined market after market, to see what I, as an experienced trader, could live with
emotionally and reasonably expect to be profitable. Could I do a better job today? I
doubt it. More number manipulation power is not necessarily better. Besides, I doubt I'd
have the fortitude to take on such a job today. Even if I were to make this single aspect
of my Trend analysis technique 5% better, would it significantly influence the bottom line?
I think not. As you will see, Trend analysis is filtered and acted upon by subsequent
powerful techniques. Remember the old axiom, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Don't
misunderstand me on this point. Research is terrific. You can learn a lot from it, and you
should try to improve on my work if you are so inclined. I would suggest to you,
however, that you test your results across all the markets. The DMA values and
calculation methods used should have universal applicability (overseas markets) as well
as the ability to stand the test of time.

=== PAGE 63 ===

Chapter 4 Trend Analysis Displaced Moving Averages 45
Below is a highly compressed chart of the daily UK long bond (gilt) with both the 25X0
and 25X5 shown. This chart illustrates price action in both trending and consolidating
periods. Arrows have been placed at points where the 25X5 contained Trend but the
25X0 did not.
CHART 4-4
You do not use Displaced Moving Averages on intraday charts. Why not? Don't they
work?
They work very well, but I have a technique that (for me) works better. It's the
MACD/Siochastic combination. Many of my clients use DMAs on intraday charts and
rave about their effectiveness. You, of course, are free to try them. They are simpler to
employ than the MACD/Stochastic combination.

=== PAGE 64 ===

46 DiNapoli Levels
The following chart shows how well an intraday 3X3 contains thrusting moves on the 30
minute S&P.
CHART 4-5
So how do we define the "Trend"?
Very simply. If the close is above the Displaced Moving Average you choose, the Trend
is up. If the close is below it, the Trend is down. If you use DMAs to non-judgmentally
enter or exit a market, I'd suggest giving it a tick or two, through the DMA on close,
before acting, particularly on the longer term 25X5.
What if the price is above it now, at mid-day, but yesterday's close was below it?
In that case, the Confirmed Trend is down and the Unconfirmed Trend is up.
Why do you use three value sets for the DMA?
The 3X3 is for the short term and is extremely useful in thrusting markets.
The 7X5 is a longer-based DMA that many have found useful in equity market analysis.
The 25X5 is my long term DMA.

=== PAGE 65 ===

Chapter 4 Trend Analysis Displaced Moving Averages 47
What if the closing price is below the 3X3, but above the 25X5?
Then the short term Trend is Confirmed down and the long term Trend is Confirmed up.
Below is an example of both DMAs on the daily German bond (bund).
CHART 4-6
How you would react or how you would play this would depend upon what Time Frame
player you were. If you were an hourly-based player, you would be very interested in the
daily 3X3 and you'd be aware of the 25X5. If you were a weekly-based player, you
would be interested in the 25X5 on the daily or perhaps the 3X3 on the weekly. One
caveat here. If the weekly-based trader was aware of a Directional Indicator created from
a daily-based 3X3, he would take notice. I'll explain this in detail in CHAPTER 6.
Is it okay to take a position on an "Unconfirmed" signal?
Absolutely, I do it all the time, but at the close of the period you had better have
confirmation in the Direction of your assumptions or you say "adios" to the trade. If you
do not, you have made a major Mistake. Also, on the subject of Mistakes, you never,

=== PAGE 66 ===

48 DiNapoli Levels
ever, change the reason for a trade. If you entered a trade on the basis of some criteria
and that criteria is negated, you don't look around for other criteria to justify your
position. If you do, you have made a serious Mistake. Close the trade, and if you have
other criteria to be in the trade, re-open it, on that basis. Pay the commission. The long
term psychological considerations far outweigh the costs involved. Besides, once you're
out of a trade and take a fresh look at it, the reentry criteria may not seem nearly as
compelling.
You referred to cupping market action. Is this really the same thing as minimizing
whipsaws?
Yes, one of the most common techniques misused by traders is that of tightening up on
their stops too quickly. The idea sounds good, but most traders don't have good stop
placement techniques in the first place, much less any idea about when to tighten them.
Consider the following daily chart of the Canadian dollar.
CHART 4-7
From March through the beginning of May, the market is primarily in a strong up Trend as
defined by the 3X3. We would therefore be playing the long side, by buying dips, likely
on an hourly chart, and selling at specific objectives. These dips and Objective Points are
defined by Fibonacci work which will be covered later.

=== PAGE 67 ===

Chapter 4 Trend Analysis Displaced Moving Averages 49
When we reach the top, we have a sustained break through the 3X3 to the downside and
the 3X3 contains or "cups" the ensuing rally back toward the top. Look at the expanded
view of the top, Chart 4-8.
CHART 4-8
If we tightened our stops too quickly, after getting short on day A, we would be stopped
out on day B or C. If we used the 3X3 as a guide to Trend delineation, we would have no
reason to be concerned about our short position, unless we experienced a significant close
back above the 3X3. In later chapters, we will cover stop placement techniques
thoroughly. For now, what's important is that you understand that the 3X3 is giving the
market an opportunity to breathe. The rally back toward the previous top provides a way
for those who have provided market liquidity to the sellers, to unwind the long positions
they have accumulated, and likely go short themselves.
As you study the concepts defined in this book, you will plainly see that markets are stable
and tradable if they have reactions to any significant price Movement. They are unstable
and dangerous to trade if there are sustained and violent moves in only one Direction.
this is due to the fact that those professionals who have provided liquidity to the markets
are the wrong wave!

=== PAGE 68 ===

 

=== PAGE 69 ===

CHAPTER
TREND ANALYSISMACD/STOCHASTIC COMBINATION
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Like most traders new to the Stochastic, I was befuddled for a time by its movement, and
dismayed by my initial attempts to use it. Fortunately the equipment I used at that time to
display the Stochastic was the CQG TQ20/20™. I say fortunately, because the TQ used a
modified type of Stochastic, rather than what was said to be the standard Lane Stochastic.
Some time later I learned there were differences in Stochastic formulas. Had I attempted
to apply this indicator using a different Stochastic formula than what was programmed in
the TQ20/20™, my learning curve would have been much steeper. This is because the
indicator would have been much more difficult to apply and interpret.
PROGRAMS, PROGRAMMERS, AND PROBLEMS:
At the risk of having your eyes glaze over from boredom or creating a brain embolism
from strain, we're going to digress a bit and discuss some significant issues we, as
traders, encounter while attempting to utilize trading tools. The Stochastic, and to a
lesser extent the MACD, give us a perfect setting for this discussion. We'll consider the
Stochastic first.
George Lane1, the originator of the Stochastics, observed that the closing price within the
range of a bar had significance relative to future price development. After considerable
1 George Lane, Investment Educators

=== PAGE 70 ===

52 DiNapoli Levels
diligent effort, he derived a formula that quantified this belief. That seems straight
forward and simple enough, but in the real world of trading software it's anything but
straight forward and simple. There are disturbing variations of Stochastic formulas
floating around and specified in reference material. Even talking with George himself who
is one of the most knowledgeable, generous, and gentlemanly figures associated with the
business, I have not found a simple means of getting from the original formula to what we
as traders are faced with using now. So here's how we'll proceed. I will try not to bury
you in complex math. There are a variety of equations in Appendix E for the
mathematicians and programmers among you. I will also give you the option to skip
ahead a few pages to the Preferred Stochastic, if your only interest is in knowing what I
use. By doing so you will eliminate going through a somewhat tortured discussion.
However, you will miss out on some of the issues we face utilizing trading software to
make our trading decisions.
As an outgrowth of George's work came a variety of terms:
Lane Stochastic
Raw Stochastic
Fast Stochastic
Slow Stochastic
Modified Stochastic
The Stochastic
WILL THE RIGHT STOCHASTIC PLEASE STAND UP:
When traders purchase a graphics package from let's say, Trade-Em-Quick Software Inc.,
we can see that they have "The Stochastic" available as one of their preprogrammed
indicators. Great, we're happy, since that's one of the indicators that we've read about
and want to use. But, which Stochastic is "The Stochastic"? If we don't know enough to
ask some very pertinent questions to some hopefully informed and responsible sales
people, we haven't any idea of what we are really getting! So, let's try to learn something
about Stochastics and let's be worldly about software and how it is developed.
LANE (RAW) STOCHASTIC:
As far as I'm concerned, all Stochastics can rightfully be called the Lane Stochastic since
they all emanated from George Lane's research. Lane Stochastics, i.e. all of the
Stochastics we will discuss, have two lines: a fast moving line %K, and a slow moving line
%D. There seems to be some agreement between the different Stochastics formulas for
%K of the Fast Stochastic, sometimes referred to as the Raw Stochastic, so we'll start
with it and I'll include the equation here.

=== PAGE 71 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 53
%K, Fast (Raw)Stochastics:
FIGURE 5-1
The calculation of %D, the slow line, is where a large number of the problems arise. The
slow line %D, is a smoothed version of the fast line, but there are a variety of ways of
smoothing a line. There's the number of periods we can use to smooth a line, as in a five
period Moving Average, or a ten period Moving Average. Then, there's the type of
Moving Average we can use. We could use a simple, or an exponential Moving Average
for example. Since there are a variety of ways of smoothing a line, there are a variety of
different Stochastics.
FAST STOCHASTICS:
If we use the formula in Figure 5-1 for %K and smooth it by using a three period modified
Moving Average (MAV), we have the %D line of the Fast Stochastic. In George Lane's
Stochastics article2, he used an example from the TQ20/20™, which used this type of
smoothing of %K to create the % D line. The TQ was also programmed to use the same
type of smoothing to create the Slow Stochastic referred to in Figure 5-3.
FIGURE 5-2
Some software companies will use other smoothing methods, however, and still call the
indicator the Fast Stochastic.
2 George Lane, "Lane's Stochastics," Technical Analysis of Stocks and
Commodities, May/June 1984.%K=IOO[(C-Ln)/(Hn-Ln)
where:
C is the latest close
Ln is the lowest low for the last n days
Hn is the highest high for the last n days
%D (of the Fast Stochastic) = 3 period MAV of %K (of the Fast Stochastic)

=== PAGE 72 ===

54 DiNapoli Levels
SLOW ( PREFERRED) STOCHASTICS:
Slow (Preferred) Stochastics are derived from Fast Stochastics. If we take the %D
computed above and rename it to %K, and then smooth this line by using a three period
modified Moving Average, we have the new slow, Slow Stochastic line, %D. These two
lines make up the indicator called the Slow Stochastic, created by a modified Moving
Average smoothing. This is what I use ("Preferred").
FIGURE 5-3
Some software companies will use other smoothing methods, however, and still call the
indicator the Slow Stochastic. The formula for the modified Moving Average is shown
below. The starting point (MAVt) is calculated identically to that of a simple Moving
Average.
MODIFIED MOVING AVERAGE (MAV):3
FIGURE 5-4
If a simple Moving Average is used instead of a modified Moving Average to perform the
smoothing, you get a Slow Stochastic which is significantly less useful. In fact, I find it
useless.
3 P.J. Kaufman, The New Commodity Trading Systems and Methods, (New York:
John Wiley & Sons, 1987)%K (of the Slow Stochastic) = %D (of the Fast Stochastic))
%D (of the Slow Stochastic) = 3 period MAV of %K (of the Slow Stochastic
MA Vt = MA Vt-1 + (Pt - MA Vt-1 )/n
where:
MAVt is the current modified Moving Average value
MA Vt-1 is the previous modified Moving Average value
Pt is the current price
n is the number of periods

=== PAGE 73 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 55
MODIFIED STOCHASTIC:
If we start at the original agreed upon formula for the fast %K (Figure 5-1) and smooth
that line by any means whatsoever, we have %K of the modified Stochastic. If we then
take that %K line and smooth it by any means whatsoever, and call the result %D, we
have the slow line of the modified Stochastic. It is likely you will find other definitions of
the Modified Stochastic in reference material or software users manuals.
THE STOCHASTIC:
Display Trade-Em-Quick Software or Aspen Graphics™ or CIS TRADING PACKAGE or
TradeStation® on your screen and there you have it, an indicator that is a Stochastic.
What it is or how useful it is, is anyone's guess. Without diligent research, I wouldn't
hope to define this term as the study it suggests can have such vastly different appearance,
applicability and usefulness, depending on how the equations are manipulated in the
software of your choice!
THE PREFERRED STOCHASTIC:
This is a new term. It is meant to reflect what / use and find of benefit. The equations
cited above to produce the Slow Stochastic and the modified Moving Average achieve
what I want. Other equations and references relating to the Stochastic are in Appendix E
so as not to confuse this issue further.
The last time I looked, my Preferred Stochastic was called the Slow Stochastic in CQG,
Inc., Aspen™, and our own CIS TRADING PACKAGE. It was not available in
TradeStation® as a preprogrammed indicator, but could be created by inputting the
proper equations in so-called "Easy Language™"(Appendix D). MetaStock™ defaults do
not produce the Preferred Stochastic. You can change the defaults in MetaStock™
without inputting equations, to create the Preferred Stochastic.
When you study the examples of Stochastics on charts in this book, using the Aspen
Graphics™ software, you will see the name Modified Stochastic rather than Slow
Stochastic, even though Slow Stochastic is my Preferred Stochastic. Why? When I set up
the study initially, I didn't trust that the programmers had computed the Slow Stochastics
correctly. I therefore went to the Modified Stochastic study and set up the study myself,
to duplicate what I knew were correct inputs. I then compared these values with what I
• knew were correct: our own CIS TRADING PACKAGE. After I did that, I compared the
specific Modified Stochastic I set up in Aspen with what Aspen called the Slow

=== PAGE 74 ===

56 DiNapoli Levels
Stochastic, and found out their programmers did get it right. When we discuss "The
Stochastic" in the body of this book, it will be my Preferred Stochastic.
As trading software evolves, it is likely that the Modified Stochastic will supplant all other
forms of Stochastics, since by definition the Modified Stochastic can be adjusted to
simulate all others. In that case, to simulate our Preferred Stochastic, the user would
input four variables:
1. eight periods for consideration (eight days, eight hours, etc.)
2. three periods of smoothing for the fast line
3. three periods of the smoothing for the slow line
4. modified for the type of Moving Average to accomplish the desired smoothing
As if this level of detail does not complicate things enough, let me tell you about two other
aspects you need to watch out for when selecting software packages and trading with the
indicators they produce.
MARKET-ALIGNED VS TIME-ALIGNED BARS:
It is much easier to program time-aligned bars but they are not as good as market-aligned
bars for analysis. Let's look at bonds as an example. Even though the bond market starts
trading at 8:20 AM and ends its actual half hour at 8:50 AM, time-aligned bars would
begin this market at 8:00 AM, and end the first bar at 8:30 AM. In this example, the first
1/2 hour (8:00-8:30) will have JO minutes of actual data in it. The second half hour bar
will have only 20 minutes of the first half hour's data in it, and 10 minutes of the second
half hour's trading data in it. Another example of time-aligned bars producing
"erroneous" high, low, last data, would be an hourly S&P. In this case, an hourly S&P's
first bar would contain data from 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM although data is not flowing until
9:30 AM! The second hour starts at 10:00 AM and goes until 11:00 AM, instead of
correctly starting at 10:30 AM and going until 11:30 AM. With the high, low, last for
these intraday charts being recorded "incorrectly," all studies calculated from them are
obviously also incorrect. Don't let complacency put you to sleep on this one. Many
traders have used studies generated from time-aligned bars for years, with substandard
results. Many of these traders are totally unaware of how these studies are being
calculated. I suggest to you that the poor performance of indicators may be the result of
the improper basis from which they are calculated, rather than the quality of the
indicators, or the trader's understanding of their use!

=== PAGE 75 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 57
THE DATA SAMPLE:
The second, and again, not so obvious malady certain graphics packages suffer from,
derives from the data sample they select to calculate studies. Let's say you reduce the
horizontal (time) axis from 140 to 40 bars. If the studies you are using require in excess
of 40 bars to produce accurate values, some vendor programming will be inadequate in
that they will calculate only from the sample shown on the screen. Whether you look at
20, 40 or 400 bars on the screen, good graphics programs will give you the same values
on the studies. These values should not depend on the number of days shown on the
screen assuming, of course, that you have adequate data available on your hard drive to
make the calculations accurate.
Loose talk about "this Stochastic" or "that Oscillator," without researching the formulas
that are used to create them or the programming behind the creation of the bars from
which they are calculated, can lead to the most disappointing results, with no hint of where
the problem lies!
PROGRAMMERS AND UPGRADES:
On the subject of programmers, let's talk about what happens in the real world of software
development. Let's assume you're the president of a software company and you're also a
trader. You have a very stable piece of software you use daily for trading decisions but...it
has a teensy, little bug in it. The number 8 in 1998 shows up a little too far to the right of
the screen. You go to your programmers and say, "That's kind of annoying; can you fix
it?" "Sure!" is the answer. You get the software back two months later and you find out
they fixed the number 8, but they also "fixed" a "problem" one of them noticed in the
Stochastic equation. Of course, they didn't tell you about this "fix. "
I'd like to establish an industry-wide standard to ensure that when programmers do
something and don't tell you about it, they lose a toenail. If you think that's harsh,
consider a trade you've been planning for weeks, that should have netted you $20,000, but
lost $10,000 instead. Why? Because the calculation of an indicator in your trading plan
had been changed without your knowledge or approval. You tell me, as a trader, would
you personally like to find the pliers, or would you just smile and say, "Please don't do
that again?" If I had my way, there would be a lot of limping going on in trading rooms,
at least initially!
The same goes for upgrades. The software company that has produced your trading
software says they have this fantastic new thing, this wonderful study in their upgrade you
couldn't give a gaseous burp for. You're forced to "upgrade," however, since they're no
longer going to support that old software version you're working with . You find out

=== PAGE 76 ===

58 DiNapoli Levels
later that in the "upgrade," they screwed up the continuous contract generator, created a
bug in the cursor window, and your charts won't print correctly any more! When you tell
them about this they say, "Don't worry, there's a new upgrade on the way - for only
$195.00."
Besides undocumented changes, so-called upgrades can wreak havoc with your trading
plan in other ways. Often, a default setting on files contained in the upgrade can overwrite
settings you may have painstakingly inputted. I'll give you one example which may or
may not apply to the software you use. Bid and ask prices are routinely reflected on your
quote page. Most traders want this feature. Most traders, however, do not -want bid and
asked prices charted. If you select the "bid and asked not charted" option and this is
overwritten by your upgrade, it may take months before you realize your charts are
wrong! Meanwhile your indicators, D-Levels™, your highs, lows and lasts, will all be
incorrect. You may even think you're due a fill by looking at your chart, when there was
only a bid or offer beyond that price!
If you are new to this game take heed. I've been involved with trading software
generation and use for 15 years and these issues are real problems. While I am awed by
the talent of programmers, I am equally dismayed by some of their actions and the actions
of the managers who direct their efforts. These individuals who may know as much about
trading as squirrels do about Fourier analysis, can easily take it upon themselves to
"improve" or inadvertently destroy our critical decision-making tools!
Notwithstanding the above, were it not for the incredible talent, persistent, dogged work
of programmers, I would not have had an opportunity to develop the way I have as a
trader. Without programmers, the Displaced Moving Average research, the Oscillator
Predictor™ and the striking advantages of my FibNodes™ program would have remained
as unfulfilled dreams. So, recognize that the advantages and costs of utilizing computers
and human beings to program them, offer awesome benefits, as well as serious challenges.
If you keep in mind that software engineers require the same level of strict management
and diligent oversight as traders, the benefits should far outweigh the costs.

=== PAGE 77 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 59
USING THE STOCHASTIC
In the early days, I started out with inputs of 14, 3, 3, but later settled on 8, 3, 3. Many of
the initial problems I encountered with this study were solved when I internalized the
concept of Trend being dependent on Time Frame. There is absolutely no inconsistency
with the five minute Stochastic showing a "buy" while the half hour shows a "sell." The
inconsistency, if any, is in the user's mind, by not knowing what Time Frame he is trading
in, or lacking the experience to handle the speed of variations inherent in very short term,
intraday trading.
In my early days trading futures, I used only the Stochastic to determine intraday Trend in
the traditional manner. When the fast line crossed the slow line from below 25, and broke
above 25, it signaled an up trend. When the fast line crossed the slow line from above 75,
and broke below 75, it signaled a down trend. See Chart 5-1.
STOCHASTIC
CHART 5-1
THE MACD (DEMA) STOCHASTIC COMBINATION:
During the mid 80s, Jake Bernstein and I conducted a seminar together. One of the topics
he presented was his Dual Exponential Moving Average (DEMA)/Stochastic combination
method. Over the years, Jake taught me many things but this particular technique, altered
in a specific way, remains among the most powerful in my trading arsenal. The way Jake
taught this method was to use the Stochastic in the traditional manner and filter it with the

=== PAGE 78 ===

60 DiNapoli Levels
DEMA buy or sell. In other words, the Stochastic and the DEMA had to both be on a
buy, or both be on a sell, before a confirmed Trend signal up or down was given. So what
was a buy on the DEMA? Better yet what is the DEMA? The DEMA is a derivative of
Gerald Appel's MACD4 (Moving Average Convergence Divergence) originally developed
by Mr. Appel for analyzing stock trends. The MACD is, as Mr. Appel says, quite simple.
You take the difference of two Moving Averages of price and create a Moving Average of
that difference. The difference of the original two Moving Averages and the Moving
Average of that difference, can be plotted as two lines, one fast and the other slow. The
equations are in Appendix E.
MACD
CHART 5-2
Notice, I've used the same two wavy lines on Chart 5-2 to show the MACD that I used to
show the Stochastic in Chart 5-1. All I've done is change the scale, since the MACD
(DEMA) oscillates about the zero line, while the Stochastic travels between zero and 100.
In our work we will essentially ignore the scale for both indicators and simply observe the
penetrations of the wavy lines.
Jake Bernstein took maximum advantage of the MACD by using specific exponential
Moving Averages rather than whole number inputs as Gerald Appel did, hence the term
DEMA5.
4 Gerald Appel, The Moving Average Convergence-Divergence Trading Method
(New York: Signalert Corporation).
5 Jacob Bernstein, Short Term Trading in Futures (Probus Publishing
Company, 1987).

=== PAGE 79 ===

Chapter 5 Trend Analysis MACD/Stochastic Combination 61
MACD OR STOCHASTIC
CHART 5-3
Like the Stochastic, when the fast line crosses the slow line from below, you get a buy.
You get a sell signal when the fast line crosses the slow line from above. As much as I
like to tweak things to achieve maximum advantage, I have never found any combination
of inputs that matches, much less exceeds, those that Jake developed, i.e. .213, .108, .199.
These exponential inputs can be simulated by "period" inputs of 8.3897, 17.5185, 9.0503,
if the software you are using is programmed to take "period" inputs and simulate
exponential Moving Average smoothing. Among those graphics programs I know of
which accurately program this study are CQG, Inc., Aspen Graphics™, TradeStation®,
and our own CIS TRADING PACKAGE. I'm sure others do as well, but I have not
confirmed that fact.
If you're a "shoot from the hip" type and think I'm getting just a little too particular about
these details, that's your prerogative. I must emphasize what I believe is important. It's
your option to choose to ignore what you please. I'm not saying you will lose money if
you don't follow this precisely. I am saying that you should know what it is that you are
doing and not make unwarranted assumptions. Besides, we need lots of "shoot from the
hip" types. These traders often provide us with the other side of our trade.
Okay, let's assume we have properly calculated and displayed the Stochastics and MACD
studies (I will refer to the DEMA as the MACD from this point forward for clarity).
Here's how I use them.

=== PAGE 80 ===

CHART 5-5
For my purposes, the MACD is the more reliable Trend indicator. I have continued to use
Jake's numbers, thereby leaving it strong. I have deliberately weakened the Stochastic by
inputting 8, 3, 3, rather than the stronger 14, 3, 3, originally used by Jake and many
others. Above are Charts 5-4 and 5-5 of the Stochastic and MACD for the daily March62 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 5-4