

=== PAGE 181 ===

Chapter 10 DiNapoli Levels Multiple Focus Numbers & Market Swings 163
In Chart 10-5, we have two Focus Numbers, Focus support Fs, and Focus resistance Fr.
Focus support numbers produce Fibnodes that elicit support, while Focus resistance
numbers produce Fibnodes that elicit resistance.
CHART 10-5

=== PAGE 182 ===

164 DiNapoli Levels
The following Charts 10-6 A & B show a portion of Chart 10-5.
CHART 10-6 A
I'm going to assume that you can properly produce the D-Levels for the up swing. This
would include a total of six (support) Fibnodes. For the sake of clarity, in Chart 10-6B, I
show only two of the support Fibnodes, i.e. those associated with the portion of the up
swing from Point 1 to Fs. All of the resistance Fibnodes for the down swing are shown.

=== PAGE 183 ===

Chapter 10 DiNapoli Levels Multiple Focus Numbers & Market Swings 165
The first (highest) support Node survived the first corrective move down from Fs, even
though the Node was briefly penetrated. It was clearly taken out by the subsequent move
down, point FR on the chart. This first support Node is no longer active and can be
removed from our consideration. It has been taken out by price. Cleaning up your charts,
as well as your software tables (spread sheets or FibNodes) is essential for maximum
clarity and optimum decision making.
The down move from Fs to FR has two reaction highs, four Fibnodes and one Confluence
'K' area. Excluding the possibility of some Directional Indicator leaning on price
Movement, it is likely the price will bounce around between the support Node at F5 and
the resistance Confluence area 'K.' Knowing that this action is likely on a short Time
Frame chart allows for the possibility of scalping.
ADVANCED COMMENTS:
Let's go back and talk about this brief penetration of the .382 support Node on the first
corrective move down from Fs. If it were 1986 or 1987, I would have considered that this
Node was a dead issue, no longer in play. Now however, with more individuals using
even crude Fibonacci analysis, there are sometimes large numbers of stops placed just
under certain Fibnodes. These stops act like gasoline strewn around the pit and knowing
floor traders as I do, they aren't shy about lighting the match. Since this Node was only
penetrated briefly and then supported, I consider it to still be active. If we had the
capability, we would drop to a lower Time Frame to see just how sharp the penetration
was. The briefer the better, to consider the Node as active. We're not finished yet. We
could also check out the possibility of there being an OP move down from the high at Fs
to the vicinity of the first support Node. If this were the case and the Agreement range
between the .382 support Node and the OP move down, takes us to the low formed
before the move back up to 1, there is certainly nothing wrong with the Node. It is still in
play! All we have done is fulfilled the OP. A third consideration when we drop the Time
Frame, would be to look at reaction lows buried in the up move from 1 to Fs. It's
possible there is a reaction low in the vicinity of the first support Node, presenting the
floor with a group of tasty sell stops to go after.
MORE FOCUS NUMBERS:
We just had an example of two active Focus Numbers existing on the same chart, one
eliciting support Nodes and one eliciting resistance Nodes.
What about three Focus Numbers - is that possible?

=== PAGE 184 ===

166 DiNapoli Levels
Try labeling Chart 10-7 on your own.
CHART 10-7

=== PAGE 185 ===

Chapter JO DiNapoli Levels Multiple Focus Numbers & Market Swings 167
CHART 10-8
If you are having problems labeling these charts, note a couple of rules that will help you
out.
1. You will have as many Focus Numbers on a chart as you have Market Swings.
2. Reaction Numbers are always "behind," or earlier in time, than the Focus Numbers that
they are associated with.
3. For a Focus number to "own," or to be associated with a given reaction low in an up
move, the Focus Number must be the highest high after the reaction is manifest. That's
why Fs2 only has one reaction low, not four! Fs2 is lower in price than Fsl.

=== PAGE 186 ===

168 DiNapoli Levels
For a Focus Number to "own," or be associated with a given reaction high in a down
move, the Focus Number must be the lowest low after the reaction is manifest.
If Fs2 broke to a price level below FR, we would be back to two Focus Numbers, Fs and
FR, as shown in Chart 10-9.
CHART 10-9

=== PAGE 187 ===

Chapter 10 DiNapoli Levels Multiple Focus Numbers & Market Swings 169
TIME FRAME'S IMPACT ON FOCUS NUMBER:
If we then lengthened the Time Frame significantly, as in Chart 10-10, the resulting
Market Swings would show up as much simpler waves. Think about it; if you go from a
five minute to an hourly chart, there will be fewer discernible retracements, i.e. Reaction
Points will disappear. It's the same situation any time you increase your Time Frame.
Likewise by reducing your Time Frame, you will get more Reaction Points, more
Confluence areas, and more opportunity to fine tune your entry and profit objectives.
CHART 10-10
We'll discuss mare about moving the Time Frame around and what it will do for you, in
the next chapter. If your eyes are crossing, don't worry about it, there will be lots of
examples coming along. Once you discipline your mind to follow the preceding rules,
these ideas should fall into place with amazing ease. If you are wondering how I came up
with this theory, it was from trading a five minute S&P. When support came in where I
didn't expect it, I'd work my way back and calculate the likely Focus and Reaction
numbers necessary to produce such support or resistance. I then went through a very
lengthy verification process. After three years or so I had it down.

=== PAGE 188 ===

170 DiNapoli Levels
LESS IS MORE
If you haven't yet figured out why that statement is true, you're probably still in your
twenties, or maybe your thirties. With regard to trading, this is a critical issue. Individuals
often challenge themselves up to the limit of their ability and beyond. Some traders
believe that keeping track of 23 indicators and 94 support levels provides them with more
comprehensive analysis than two indicators and six support levels. In trading for profit,
look at more markets if you must, but don't foul yourself up with a spaghetti chart.
PRUNING THE FIB SERIES:
With respect to keeping things as simple as possible, let's look again at how we can
eliminate Fibnodes as they become irrelevant and thereby simplify and clarify the path to
our objective.
CHART 10-11
Chart 10-11 shows a clear progression of an up Movement with shallow retracements
until price reaches point E (Enough). The price then makes an OP move down into
Agreement with the .618 Node of the entire up move. That simplifies our life as

=== PAGE 189 ===

Chapter 10 DiNapoli Levels Multiple Focus Numbers & Market Swings 171
traders, since we are now able to remove from consideration all of the Fibnodes that the
down price action has penetrated through (less is more.) F5, off the primary reaction low
'4', is the only active support Node left on the chart.
The next Chart 10-12 is a favorite of mine from private tutoring sessions. It's a five
minute line chart depiction of the S&P on a day the Federal Reserve cut the discount rate
by two points, the First Lady was rumored to have had an affair with the Chief of Staff,
and the President was wounded in a related incident. China also invaded Taiwan,
Congress approved the capital gains tax reduction and ... well you all get the idea.
CHART 10-12
Try to label this, before turning the page.

=== PAGE 190 ===

172 DiNapoli Levels
There are only two active Fibnodes remaining on this chart which are probably more than
the number of traders still solvent. All the others have been taken out by the price action.
CHART 10-12A

=== PAGE 191 ===

CHAPTER
TRADING WITH
DiNapoli LevelsTM
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
Your success in trading with DiNapoli Levels is dependent upon a comprehensive
understanding of what has been taught throughout this book. Your ability to recognize
how different Time Frame charts of the same data impact your trading strategy is of the
utmost importance. Spend as much time as you require internalizing this subject. The
dividends paid will be many.
MOVING THE TIME FRAME
To some of you this will be absurdly obvious. Others among you will really struggle with
the visualization of the way Time Frame interacts with DiNapoli Level creation. If you
have trouble with this process, it will become clear as you work with graphics software
and display the same data in different Time Frame charts.

=== PAGE 192 ===

174 DiNapoli Levels
We'll start very simply. The half hour Chart 11-1A, has an eight price bar up move. The
line Chart, 11-1B, shows all the information from the bar chart that we need for D-Level
creation. Chart 11-1C shows the proper labeling of Focus and Reaction Numbers for this
Market Swing.
A HALF HOUR CHART B LINE CHART C DINAPOLI LEVELS
CHART 11-1

=== PAGE 193 ===

Chapter 11 Trading With DiNapoli Levels 175
The same (up) price Movement depicted on an hourly-based chart has only four price bars
instead of eight, since it takes twice as much time to create each bar. In this process a
reaction (number) disappears.
A HOURLY CHART B LINE CHART C DINAPOLI LEVELS
CHART 11-2
Both charts are equally accurate for the Time Frame shown. The point is that as you
increase the Time Frame:
five minute to hourly
daily to weekly
weekly to monthly, etc.
the number of DiNapoli Levels will likely decrease, because the number of Reaction
Points are likely to decrease.
Conversely if you decrease your Time Frame:
monthly to weekly
weekly to daily
hourly to five minute, etc.
you will likely increase the number of DiNapoli Levels.

=== PAGE 194 ===

176 DiNapoli Levels
Let's say you are a daily-based player, but your equipment gives you the ability to collect
hourly data (as is the case with an inexpensive delayed feed). You can produce more
Fibnodes on an hourly basis than you would otherwise see on the daily chart. You can
therefore fine tune entry areas and stop placement points. You can still do your analysis at
the end of the day, but with an hourly capability you can create additional Fibnodes from
Reaction Numbers that would be buried in the daily action. These additional Fibnodes
may create areas of Confluence transparent to higher Time Frame traders.
AN IDEALIZED TRADING EXAMPLE:
Let's try to apply some of the techniques we've learned so far, in an everyday trading
situation. We'll assume we've dropped the Time Frame sufficiently to locate a Confluence
area, as shown on Chart 11-3. We'll also assume the following criteria regarding Trend.
The Stochastic (not shown) has given a "sell" while the MACD (also not shown) remains
in the "buy" mode. The Trend therefore remains intact to the up side. Furthermore, for
the sake of simplicity, we'll say the Trend will remain intact to the up side, even if price
action were to break to the area of Confluence.
The questions: Where would you enter, and where is your stop?
CHART 11-3

=== PAGE 195 ===

Chapter 11 Trading With DiNapoli Levels 177
Ponder the questions before considering the solutions outlined below. There is more
going on here than is obvious. Incidentally, there is more than one correct answer.
Hyper Hank: Joe, I'd sell the market right where it is and take profits at the Confluence
area. Then I'd go long.
This answer is correct only if Hank had the ability to lower his Time Frame sufficiently to
observe the Trend on the Market Swing down. Hyper Hank needs a down Trend to
justify his sell, and while a lower Time Frame may give an MACD/Stochastic "sell," it's an
assumption on Hank's part and beyond the specified criteria. Also, any offset to his short
position or any order that would initiate a long position, should not be placed at 'K'
Confluence, but rather above Confluence in order to increase his chances of being filled.
Hank also did not answer the question fully. He said nothing regarding stop placement.
He's so anxious to trade, he doesn't consider protecting himself. My advice would be for
Hyper Hank to settle down and regroup1, otherwise he is about to'learn an expensive
lesson.
Conservative Carl: Joe, I'd put my buy at the .618 retracement of Reaction 2, and place a
stop beyond the old low at Reaction 2.
This solution assumes the Trend would still be up at the .618 of Reaction 2, and the
criteria given, only guaranteed an up Trend to Confluence. If we assume the Trend would
remain up at his entry point, I would recommend that Carl:
A. Should put his sell stop at, not below #2 (assuming he has a broker that commands
respect in the pit).
B. Should buy above the Primary Node, (which is, as he stated, the .618 retracement of
Reaction 2), not on it.
If Conservative Carl had qualified his entry, depending on the Trend remaining intact, this
solution would be acceptable, but perhaps overly cautious. The problem with waiting for
deep retracements to manifest, is that the context (in this case Trend) may be history at the
entry point, and Minesweeper A or B would have to be employed for a proper entry. See
Fibonacci Tactics CHAPTER 13.
1 He should reread CHAPTERS 4 & 5 on Trend analysis. There are also a variety of trading psychology
sources listed in the bibliography, reference, and appendix sections, which would be of value to him.

=== PAGE 196 ===

178 DiNapoli Levels
Diligent Dan: Joe, I'd enter just above Confluence and depending on my money
management criteria, my stop would be below Confluence or below F5 of the Primary
Node. If I choose the later stop placement criteria, I'd keep my eye on the Trend. If the
Trend broke to the down side, I'd exit at the market or calculate the resistance DiNapoli
Levels at that point, and take my first opportunity to exit my long, at or below a
resistance Node.
Good answer Dan, but you are missing something.
Hyper Hank is back!: I'd put my buy above the first .382 support Node and my stop below
Confluence.
That would be my choice as well, but give me a reason.
/ don't want to miss the move!
Diligent Dan is back!: Hyper's second solution is Joe's preference because there's
Agreement between the OP of the down move, and the first .382 retracement area.
CORRECT! See Chart 11-4.
CHART 11-4

=== PAGE 197 ===

Chapter 11 Trading With DiNapoli Levels \ 79
You can see from the progression of ideas that there is more than one acceptable answer
possible from analysis employing the same methodology.
ADVANCED COMMENTS:
It's probably a little advanced at this point but I'll be more specific about my stop
placement.
If the higher Time Frame Trends supported a long entry, (better, safer context than what
was given), my initial stop would likely be below the primary .618 '*' Node.
If the higher Time Frame Trends did not support the trade, then my stop would be just
below Confluence.
If the trade criteria included a Directional Signal up rather than just a Trend up, I would
have entered just above the first .382 Node, even if there were no Agreement, since a
Directional Signal is stronger than just a Trend up. I would also buy stop the old high, or
the high at C // the Directional Signal were particularly strong (like a Double RePo
Failure). If I were filled on both the 'Or Better' buy (at the first .382) as well as the 'buy
stop,' that would be fine. I don't mind doubling size on Directional moves.
D-LEVEL™ EXPANSION ANALYSIS & LPOs:
Now let's look at a somewhat more complex set of Market Swings with respect to
Fibonacci Expansion Analysis and Logical Profit Objectives , as in Chart 11-5 below.
See if you can locate all profit Objectives on Chart 11-5 before turning the page. As
usual, there is more here than meets the eye.
CHART 11-5

=== PAGE 198 ===

180 DiNapoli Levels
HYPER HANK'S SOLUTION:
CHART11-5A
DILIGENT DAN'S SOLUTION:
CHART 11-5B

=== PAGE 199 ===

Chapter 11 Trading With DiNapoli Levels 181
Dan correctly perceived that I did not specify whether we were long, short, or out. In this
type of configuration, there are Objective Points both up and down, depending upon the
labeling of the ABC move.
Hank's labeling of Chart 11-5 was correct but incomplete. I have not included these labels
on Dan's solution for clarity, but I did include all expansions. If I were to include both
labels on this one chart, one set would have been labeled A, B, C (Hank), the next set
would have been labeled A', B', C' (Dan). Both resistance Objective Points and support
Objective Points were created from the combined labeling.
As Diligent as Dan was, he was not diligent enough. Do you know what's missing? Think
about our definition of Logical Profit Objectives before turning the page.

=== PAGE 200 ===

182 DiNapoli Levels
RESISTANCE NODES AS
LOGICAL PROFIT OBJECTIVES
CHART 11-5C
SUPPORT NODES AS
LOGICAL PROFIT OBJECTIVES
CHART 11-5D
Based on our definition of Logical Profit Objectives, the Fibnode retracement areas should
be included, unless these Fibnode retracement areas have been taken out by price.
Including these Fibnodes gives you five Logical Profit Objective Points, not three, for a
given Market Swing.