

=== PAGE 101 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 83
How about crude oil? Well, it's certainly a liquid market. It's also a volatile market, and
that's what we want. Let's see what happened when Saddam did his thing back in the
summer of 1990.
CHART 6-7
Chart 6-7 shows the 3X3 containing trend all the way up to the $40 level, then a Double
RePo and subsequent break through the 25X5. This Double RePo was the first time since
the invasion of Kuwait that it was "safe" to go short. The previous breaks of the 3X3 (SI
& S2) were single penetrations only, primarily due to the vast difference between the two
tops (Tl & T2) made prior to each penetration. These dips presented buying
opportunities as you will see when we cover our Bread and Butter directional signal.
If you had misinterpreted these single penetrations as a Double RePo, you would have
shortly reversed and more than made your money back when the '*' Fibonacci level (not
shown) was exceeded. This is called a Double RePo Failure. It will be the next
directional signal we cover.

=== PAGE 102 ===

84 DiNapoli Levels
In Chart 6-8, we have a monthly based, Double RePo buy in the German bund.
CHART 6-8
I could go on and on with these examples, but you should have enough here to recognize
this Directional Indicator when you see it. I've stressed your understanding of the Double
RePo since your understanding of its formation is critical to your understanding of the
Double RePo Failure as well as Bread & Butter. Before we leave this topic, however, I
want to show you a very interesting Chart (6-9) of monthly gold.

=== PAGE 103 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators 9 Power Patterns 85
CHART 6-9
I didn't know about the Double RePo back in the early 80s when this event took place. I
wish I had.
The original move up to 875 certainly qualified as thrust. The dissimilar tops were a bit
hard to live with but the fact that the second peak was held back by Fibonacci '*'
resistance made it more palatable. The sell signal was given at about 625. The subsequent
fall was a move down to about 280! I'm certainly not suggesting that anyone trade this
monthly chart with what might be a $200 stop. What you need to understand is that the
monthly set up can be used for weekly-based mutual fund switching or daily-based
commodity trading. Another reason I wanted to show you this chart is so you can see
what I'm looking for in the current stock market rally before I get excessively bearish. If
we get a monthly Double RePo sell on the Dow or in the S&P, say good-bye to stocks! If
the ensuing monthly pullback returns to the .618 retracement from the beginning of this
bull market, we could be looking at a loss of over 4000 points!. If we only achieve the
.382 retracement, we're still looking at something over 2500 points! For those of you
who don't think this is likely or at least possible, gaze at Chart 6-9 again.

=== PAGE 104 ===

86 DiNapoli Levels
THE "DOUBLE REPO FAILURE":
1. First, you must have a Confirmed Double RePo, as shown in Chart 6-10.
CHART 6-10
2. The Double RePo signal fails and is negated when the closing price exceeds the
Fibonacci '*' level. This is your signal bar. The expected subsequent action should be
strongly up.
3. Your exit is at a significant Logical Profit Objective or a Confirmed Trend signal as
defined by the 3X3 that does not confirm the action expected from the Failure.

=== PAGE 105 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 87
Note: This signal is one of the few instances when you would reverse your original
position. It would also be acceptable to aggressively enter (initiate a new position) against
the high of the Double RePo Failure signal bar, after even the smallest of pullbacks. The
point is, this is a Directional signal. You don't play with it. You get out of the way and
go with it! In Chart 6-10, we clearly have a Double RePo which fails by exceeding Point
'*'. Once you're in the trade to the long side, you have two ways to exit. Point COP (not
shown) would be your Fibonacci precalculated, profit objective. Penetrating back below
the 3X3 on close is your protective exit. This protective exit could turn out to give you a
profit or a loss on the trade, depending on when and where price action crossed the 3X3.
You could also use the stop placement methods discussed in CHAPTERS 8 through 11.
Regardless of alternative tactics, the signal stays in play until a significant Logical Profit
Objective is achieved or you get a Confirmed Trend against the anticipated Movement.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
Once (he Failure is in place, how aggressively do I treat it?
You immediately get out of any existing positions that are counter to the action
anticipated by the Failure. You may initiate new positions aggressively, or by criteria yet
to be described (dropping the Time Frame and entering at a Fib retracement or Confluence
area).
Can I use the MACD/Stochastic Trend indicator to determine the protective exit rather
than the 3X3, if the Failure doesn't go my way?
Yes, a Failure should move now, and keep moving. If it doesn't, something is wrong.

=== PAGE 106 ===

88 DiNapoli Levels
Chart 6-11 weekly bonds has two Double RePo Failures as well as a Double RePo. I've
identified one Double RePo Failure and the Double RePo. Can you find the other Failure?
CHART 6-11

=== PAGE 107 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 89
Chart 6-12 shows a Double RePo Failure in the daily bund. The price action to the right
of the top does not qualify as a Double RePo, since there was not adequate thrust. Note
how nicely the 25X5 contains long term Trend.
CHART 6-12

=== PAGE 108 ===

90 DiNapoli Levels
THE "SINGLE PENETRATION" OR THE "BREAD AND BUTTER" SIGNAL:
I'd like to say this is a "lay down" but of course nothing is in trading. This trade is
designed to book you some nice comfortable profits with little risk. Unfortunately, it
requires a good understanding of advanced Fibonacci Retracement Analysis to implement,
so you will need to reread this after D-Levels™ are covered. Some of the terms, of
necessity, must be broad.
1. Like the Double RePo, the Bread and Butter must have a minimum of 8-10 periods of
thrusting market action. More is better. Just what constitutes thrust is far easier to
visualize than to define. This is good news, since it will make it tough for programmers to
specify. Therefore, it should continue to "work" for some time to come.
CHART 6-13

=== PAGE 109 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators. 9 Power Patterns 91
2. After the initial penetration of the 3X3 on close, look for an intraday Fibonacci
(support) retracement level, at a significant Fibnode, to enter the market in the Direction
of the original thrust. This level should occur within one to three periods of the initial
Confirmed break of the 3X3. I recommend daily, weekly, and monthly periods, although
this strategy will also have merit on intraday charts. The retracement Fibnodes which are
the basis of your entry as well as your stop, should be calculated from the hourly (and
higher) Time Frame charts, if you use the periods I suggest.
3. Once the trade is entered, set your stop loss beyond a deeper Fibonacci retracement
level, and your profit objective a bit before the 618 retracement '*' of the entire contra
move, i.e. the move that is opposite the original thrust.
Let's take a look at the monthly gold Chart 6-14, as an example of our buy and sell points.
CHART 6-14

=== PAGE 110 ===

92 DiNapoli Levels
Before you have a coronary over the prospect of that $200 stop, let me point out that this
is a theoretical example. It could be made practical, however, if we used the monthly
Direction for weekly-based mutual fund switching or even daily based Fib entry. Context!
Context! Context! Plan your trades as you would any other important financial endeavor.
I'd give you more examples, but we haven't covered how to arrive at the Fibonacci entry
and stop levels yet, so the exercise would have limited relevance.
Before we leave this topic, however, let's look at our friend Microsoft, Chart 6-15. This
time we'll view it in a monthly Time Frame.
There's no inconsistency in being a seller on a weekly Double RePo, as discussed earlier,
closing the trade at the Logical Profit Objective shown in Chart 6-6, and then being a
buyer based on a monthly Bread and Butter signal. If this seems inconsistent to you, you
don't fully understand price vs. time charts or Time Frames. A review of the Trend
discussion in CHAPTER 2 may help.
CHART 6-15

=== PAGE 111 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 93
CHART 6-16
Notice how the monthly MACD Confirmed the ongoing monthly up trend, while the
Stochastic gave us a great buying opportunity, once the profit objective shown in Chart 6-
6 was reached.
Note the consistency between the Bread and Butter monthly buy and the MACD shown
above. What is not shown is a daily Double RePo Look-alike on the buy side that
occurred at the same time! This is what high probability trading is all about!

=== PAGE 112 ===

94 DiNapoli Levels
PATTERN FAILURES:
The idea behind these directional signals is not to follow everyone else, but rather to fade
those pattern players when you are sure they are wrong. Typically, newer traders are
looking at the standard Robert Edwards and Magee trading patterns1 for trading signals.
They make an excellent group to feed off, if you can determine what they are doing and
when they are likely to panic. These signals work best when these traders have the time to
get in the trade the wrong way. That's why I look at daily, weekly, and monthly pattern
Failures. While the higher Time Frames hold the more secure probabilities, some pretty
dramatic results can be achieved from certain intraday pattern Failures.
THE "HEAD AND SHOULDER FAILURE":
CHART 6-17
The above idealized example illustrates a clear H&S with a break of the neck line, a bit of
consolidation below it, then a close back above it. The subsequent action is expected to
be strongly up because the short selling pattern players are caught wrong, and must
1 Robert Edwards and John Magee, Technical Analysis of Stock Trends

=== PAGE 113 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicaors, 9 Power Patterns 95
unwind their positions. The lower portion of the consolidation after the break of the neck
line may be supported by a significant Fibonacci level. If it is, you will have some advance
warning that a Failure is coming and you can enter according to the Fibonacci tactics
taught in CHAPTER 13. It isn't necessary however, that such support causes the
subsequent Failure. What's necessary is that (he Failure occurs. Anticipate this pattern
at your risk. If you anticipate this signal before it crosses the neck line, you will be trading
against a classic pattern and you would also likely be against the prevailing trend.
Remember, you are not taking the classic sell signal, rather the Failure (buy), if it happens.
CHART 6-18
The bond weekly Chart 6-18 shows a picture perfect example of this phenomenon. We
have strong Fib support below the neck line. Time for players to "get wrong" (two to
three weeks) followed by a subsequent sharp move up, trapping those pattern players.
This weekly action would be the set up for the trade. You would enter on the daily Time
Frame.

=== PAGE 114 ===

96 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 6-19
The daily chart illustrates how powerful and rewarding this signal can be. The idea is to
drop your Time Frame to enter the trade, once the setup is apparent.
If you are observing the pattern Failure on a weekly chart, you can enter on the daily. If
you are observing the phenomenon on the daily, enter on the hourly. The specific entry
techniques you would use will be covered later in this book. If you hesitate, you can
easily get left behind!
NOTE: These types of pattern plays are particularly rewarding if they are widely
promoted in a specific market, particularly on TV programs, or in a widely-followed
newsletter, or fax service.

=== PAGE 115 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 97
THE "TRIANGLE BREAKOUT FAILURE" OR "OOPS":
FAILURE
FIBNODE
SUPPORT
CHART 6-20
The Triangle Breakout Failure or OOPS can take a variety of forms. The key is that
traders have recognized that the triangle pattern exists and they have had time to act on it,
thereby getting in the wrong way. It can't be too subtle. All the same reasoning applies
as with the Head & Shoulders Failure.

=== PAGE 116 ===

98 DiNapoli Levels
"FADING POPULARITY" OR "THE VULTURES DELIGHT":
In the early 90s, when Candlestick charting was new in the U.S. and aggressively
promoted, I had a studious client call me whenever the strongest of the Candlestick signals
occurred. I never took any of the signals. I simply asked him, as a dedicated devotee of
Candlestick patterns, when his Directional signal would indicate that he was wrong. That
was my Directional signal. Soon he understood what I had been trying to teach him about
how powerful Failures can be.
THE "RAILROAD TRACK":
This is a top notch Directional signal that can occur in any Time Frame. Its wide
applicability is likely responsible for the glowing comments from my clients. It's as easy
as it gets to apply and profit from, with a minimum of effort. For those of you who have
studied Steidlmayer's work 2, the Market Profile®, and understand "rejection of price,"
the underlying concept of why this works will be apparent. To those of you who are
unfamiliar with these concepts, just imagine a half a dozen ocean-front homes in Santa
Barbara, California suddenly going up for sale at $100,000 each. Boom, they're gone.
Professional investors and Realtors snap them up and the price is back to the more normal
range, perhaps higher since overhanging supply is now absent.
The idealized Chart 6-21 depicts a typical Railroad Track. With the extensions down as
shown, we would expect a strong up move. Notice how the extended two bars are out of
close proximity with the others bars. We call this "Railroad Tracks in the country", i.e.
nice, scenic, and pleasant. Railroad tracks in the city are congested, unhappy events,
potentially dangerous to cross, smoggy, and unsightly. As futures traders, what we want
is space around the Railroad Tracks we select to trade. For rejection of price, we need
price that is not common.
The Railroad Track (RRT) can take place in any Time Frame, from five minute to yearly.
It is one of two directional signals which allows you to adjust the Time Frame to any
desired amount. In other words, you may cause the data to fit into our perception of
usability, by adjusting the Time Frame. So, let's imagine some variations that will all
work, since they all represent the same phenomenon.
2 J. Peter Steidlmayer and Kevin Koy, Markets & Market Logic, (The Porcupine Press, 1986)

=== PAGE 117 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 99
CHART 6-21

=== PAGE 118 ===

100 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 6-22 (TWICE THE TIME FRAME)
Chart 6-22 contains exactly the same data as Chart 6-21, only it is shown at twice the
Time Frame. If Chart 6-21 was a half hour chart, Chart 6-22 would be an hourly chart. If
Chart 6-21 was an hourly, 6-22 would be a two hour chart. The RRT phenomenon works
exactly the same, since the price action is exactly the same. It just looks a little different.NO CONGESTIONBUY STOP THE HIGH
BUY A SHALLOW
RETRACEMENT
RAILROAD TRACK

=== PAGE 119 ===

Chapter 6 Directional Indicators, 9 Power Patterns 101
B D
RAILROAD TRACKS IN DIFFERENT TIME FRAMES
CHART 6-23
Chart 6-23 shows a variety of looks that RRTs can assume. You'll need to get used to the
fact that all of these forms are applicable in exactly the same way, since they depict the
same phenomenon.
So, how do we play it?
These events can be so powerful that some of you will choose to enter "at the market"
once the RRT is established, while others will choose a Fib retracement level for entry, as
described later in this book. You will know you are wrong if the RRT returns to its
extreme in price. It would be advisable to have a stop in excess of the .618 retracement,
the '*' Fibnode. It would be nice if you could enter on a .382 retracement of the move up,
after point R (recognition) is achieved, but often the continuation movement is too
powerful. You will likely need to employ the more advanced methods covered later. I
will typically stop myself in (initiating positions) against any extension of the extreme of
the move after point R, while also attempting to position myself on a shallow retracement
level. If I'm filled on both orders that's fine. If I just get the initiating buy stop, that's
okay too.c

=== PAGE 120 ===

102 DiNapoli Levels
In the following 30 minute chart of U.S. Treasury bond futures, we can see a Railroad
Track extending up to 11525. We know it's a RRT when subsequently the market returns
to where the extension started, approximately 11508. That's the point of recognition (R).
Note the flat tops at 11514. They show a large overhead supply. This is our sell point.
We can also initiate sell stops at the 11508 level in case we're not filled at the retracement
sell, or if we want to double up. This is a 30 minute chart. We don't want to be married
to the position. We take a quick Fibonacci profit level (OP) near the low at 11428. If the
higher Time Frame trends (not shown) were in a sell mode, we might want to stick around
for bigger profits, or possibly hit it again on a retracement back toward the extension high.
Based on the intraday RRT shown however, this was a nice "safe" trade that allowed us to
book some nice "safe" profits. I like taking profits. So should you.
CHART 6-24