

=== PAGE 161 ===

INTRODUCTION & CAUTIONS:
DiNapoli Levels are applicable, with uncanny accuracy, from one minute charts to yearly
charts, perhaps longer. If you plan to trade the very short term, be prepared to work hard,
very hard. Even though computers, used in conjunction with the proper software, can
ease this workload, diligent attention wears all of us down. Regardless of the quality of
the approach or the thoroughness of your analysis, it's easy to burn out, and in the process
squander hard won equity.
Throughout this book, I am attempting to include not only the product of my research, but
also the knowledge and experience I have gained from hard won trading lessons. I feel
it's a part of my mandate to wave red flags at the sand traps. Since I've been teaching a
long time, I've had ample opportunity to observe both the successes and failures of my
students. These observations have led me to the following cautions. Once you have
digested the material and have learned to apply DiNapoli Levels properly, you need to be
watchful of overconfidence and the consequential lack of money management that results
from a series of unbelievable calls. Aside from that, sloppiness in the application of
context, as well as lack of experience with order entry and floor operations, are additional
serious pitfalls. If you are buying and selling in the wrong place, it doesn't matter if your
floor knowledge is limited. You'll lose anyway. When you buy and sell in the right
place however, there is great competition for fills and you will experience problems you
may have never encountered before1.
1 Joe DiNapoli, "X'd Trade or Where's My Fill?" Technical Analysis of Stocks & Commodities, March
1995, page 88.DiNapoli Levels™CHAPTER

=== PAGE 162 ===

144 DiNapoli Levels
ELLIOTT WAVE PRINCIPLE:
Many believe that Elliott Wave Principle is synonymous with Fibonacci Analysis. It is not.
Fibonacci analysis can stand on its own (not recommended) or as part of an overall trading
strategy which includes or excludes Elliott Wave. Those of you who are familiar with the
Elliott Wave Principle will quickly find particular value in the trading approach taught in
this book. Knowing where you are in a particular Elliott Wave count is confusing at best
to long time practitioners, let alone newcomers. DiNapoli Levels circumvent the problem
and look at waves as expansions and contractions of themselves, period.
DINAPOLI LEVELS™:
In CHAPTER 8, I described basic Fibonacci analysis. Some form of this basic approach is
what most people practice when using Fibonacci analysis on the price axis. That's fine as
far as it goes, but to progress to a deeper level, we must have a variety of definitions to
clarify and quantify our thinking. Understanding these definitions is an absolutely essential
prerequisite to your command of the subject matter and for your eventual application of
advanced Fibonacci analysis (DiNapoli Levels) to the markets. So, refer back to these
definitions as many times as necessary, until you can call them your own.

=== PAGE 163 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 145
DEFINITIONS:
MARKET SWING:
A Market Swing is a trader-defined market move, lasting minutes or years, taken from a
"significant" market low or high, which occurred sometime in the past, to the most recent
high or low. A Market Swing can be referred to as a wave. In the following chart the
Market Swing would be between the Focus Number and Reaction 5.
DOWN MOVE
UP MOVE
CHART 9-1
REACTION NUMBER or POINT:
A Reaction Number usually is a low or high point within a given Market Swing (numbers
1 through 5). I have avoided using the terms "swing high," or "low," in the definition of
Reaction Numbers for two reasons. First, some of you will attach certain inapplicable

=== PAGE 164 ===

146 DiNapoli Levels
qualifiers to this term. Second, we will have Reaction Numbers in areas that "swing
highs" and "lows" cannot possibly be found.
There can be multiple Reaction Numbers within a Market Swing. What determines
whether Reaction Numbers are lows or highs is the Movement of the Market Swing. In
our example, each swing has five Reaction Numbers. For our purposes, Point 5 is
considered to fall within our definition of Reaction Numbers, even though Point 5 might
not be reacting from any previous point. It could be, for example, an all time low price,
as with hot, Initial Public Offering (IPO). In fact, Point 5 has very significant importance,
as it is the extreme of the Market Swing. It is referred to as Primary Reaction Number or
indicated by the '*' symbol.
FOCUS NUMBER:
The Focus Number is the extreme of the Market Swing. It is the location on a chart, from
which all retracement values (Fibnodes) for a given Market Swing, are calculated. If the
Focus Number changes, all Fibnodes for a given Market Swing change as well.
FIBIMODE or NODE:
A Fibnode or Node is a number based upon Fibonacci retracement ratios, which will elicit
support as the market approaches it from above or resistance as the market approaches it
from below. Two Fibnodes, or Nodes, are calculated, one at a .382 retracement, and the
other at a .618 retracement between the Focus Number and a Reaction Number.
FibNodes™ is also the name of a software program used to calculate and present
Fibonacci retracements and objectives. Within this text, except for headings, FibNodes
will appear with a capital F and a capital N when referring to the software program.
OBJECTIVE POINT:
An Objective Point is a number based upon Fibonacci expansion ratios, which marks a
targeted Profit Objective for an advancing or declining wave.
CONFLUENCE:
Confluence ('K') is a price point or area which occurs when two Fibnodes from different
Reaction Numbers have the same, or almost the same numerical value. The Confluence
must occur only between .382 and .618 Fibnodes. An area of Confluence would include
the Fibnodes that create the Confluence, as well as the range of price between them.

=== PAGE 165 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 147
Confluence presents significantly stronger support or resistance than a single Fibnode.
Confluence (closeness) is dependent on the volatility and Time Frame of a Market Swing.
Fibnode Confluence can therefore be widely disparate from one chart to the next. For
example, the extremes of the price range of a one minute or a monthly chart are incredibly
different. Likewise the price range in a given Time Frame may vary widely. We might
have a range of price in one day of 250 points, and 1250 points in another day.
Confluence is subjective. It keeps the programmers and non-judgmental traders confused,
and that's healthy for the longevity and usefulness of this approach.
LINEAGE MARKINGS:
Lineage Markings2 are semi-circular arcs used to visually identify which Reaction
Numbers create a given Fibnode.
LOGICAL PROFIT OBJECTIVE:
A Logical Profit Objective is a predetermined price point where orders will be placed in
the opposite direction from that which you are trading. If you're long, this will manifest
as resistance. If you are short, this will manifest as support. Two Logical Profit Objective
location techniques are Oscillator Predictor Points, and Fibonacci-derived points.
Fibonacci-derived points can be those that come from Fibonacci expansion analysis, or, as
you will see, levels created from certain Fibnodes singularly, or at Confluence levels.
Since trading is simply a game of percentages, it should follow that accurate (Logical)
Profit Objective Points would significantly increase your ability to evaluate your
percentage, your chance of continued profit!
AGREEMENT:
Agreement is an area of price which occurs when the proximity of a Fibnode and an
Objective point (COP, OP, or XOP) is "acceptably close."
2 In some workshops and in the TRADING COURSE, these markings have sometimes been referred to as
cross hatch markings.

=== PAGE 166 ===

148 DiNapoli Levels
FIB SERIES:
A Fib Series is the combined set of Fibnodes, created from the proper application of
DiNapoli Levels to the price axis. It is not the Fibonacci Summation Series discussed
under Basic Fibonacci Analysis in CHAPTER 8.
DINAPOLI LEVELS™ or D-LEVELS™:
DiNapoli Levels are support and resistance levels created from a specific set of rules,
governing the advanced applications of Fibonacci analysis to the price axis. DiNapoli
Levels include Fibnodes, Objective Points, Confluence, and Agreement price areas.

=== PAGE 167 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 149
EXAMPLES:
The first step in determining DiNapoli Levels is the proper location of the Focus and
Reaction Numbers.
Let's take a look at the following chart:
PAST CURRENT
CHART 9-2
In Chart 9-2, we're looking at the progression of a Market Swing over time. The Focus
Number is the high of the move. In the PAST wave, Reaction 1 is the Primary Reaction
Number. This wave would produce two Fibnodes.
The old Focus Number at O in the CURRENT wave, has no significance in determining the
new or current Fibnodes. The CURRENT wave has two Reaction Numbers, 1 & 2.
Reaction Number 2 is now the Primary Reaction Number. As we learned in CHAPTER 8,
there are two Fibnodes per Reaction Number, therefore we can now generate four
Fibnodes.

=== PAGE 168 ===

150 DiNapoli Levels
The following Chart 9-3 shows four Fibnodes, a Confluence area, and Lineage Markings.
There is Confluence 'K' in the area created by the .618 reaction of the F to 1 leg, and the
.382 reaction of the F to 2 leg.
It is crucial for you to know which Reaction low created each Fibnode pair. They must be
clearly associated. Fibnode Lineage tells us a lot about the nature of our response when
that Node is approached by market action. A bunch of lines splayed across a chart with
no identifying Lineage only confuses our action. It doesn't help us. There's no need to
place Lineage Markings up to the Focus Number, since all Fibnodes in a Market Swing
are created from the same Focus Number. That's why it's called the Focus Number.
CHART 9-3

=== PAGE 169 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 151
Chart 9-4 is an example of how Agreement arises:
CHART 9-4
A .382 support Fibnode between the Focus Number 'F' and Reaction 1 is acceptably close
to an OP expansion from C. Acceptably close is subjective. It is dependent upon Time
Frame and volatility.

=== PAGE 170 ===

152 DiNapoli Levels
Now let's look at a slightly more complex wave.
CHART 9-5
Chart 9-5 is obviously an up wave. A down wave would be annotated in a similar manner,
consistent with the charts shown earlier.
In this up wave, we have two Confluence areas, K1 and K2. If you choose to be a buyer
as the market progresses upward (context), it would be an excellent strategy to buy just
above the Confluence area K1, and hide your stop just below the K2 area. The specifics
of order entry will be covered later in the Fib tactics section, CHAPTER 13.

=== PAGE 171 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 153
Now let's look at a real market example, so you can see how effectively the concept of
Confluence works in real life trading. Below is Chart 9-6, the monthly deutsche mark.
CHART 9-6

=== PAGE 172 ===

154 DiNapoli Levels
If we label this as shown earlier in the idealized Chart 9-2, we'll have four Fibnodes, two
of which create the Confluence area shown in Chart 9-7.
CHART 9-7

=== PAGE 173 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 155
CHART 9-8
As expected, the Confluence area provides substantial support and sets up the market for
a major rally. See the daily Chart 9-8. If we didn't know about the monthly Confluence
area and we were short this market, we would be in for a surprise. From our definition of
Logical Profit Objectives, this area of Confluence would have been a great place to close
our shorts. If we were monthly-based players, we could then wait for a retracement back
to reinitiate our short positions (as long as our context for the trade remained in effect). If
we were daily-based players, there are a number of ways we could get long the daily
move. I'll consider a few.
1. The rally off of Confluence looks suspiciously like a daily Double
Repenetration. If it were (not shown) we'd jump on the long side like a duck
on a June bug. We could do this in a number of ways.
A. Buy the first shallow retracement, after the Confirmed Double RePo.

=== PAGE 174 ===

156 DiNapoli Levels
B. Buy stop the high, after the smallest of pull backs, after the Confirmed
Double RePo.
C. Anticipate the Double RePo, and enter the market after a pull back, but
with some Confirmed intraday Trend in our favor.
2. Enter the market on a retracement, after a Confirmed Trend up in the Time
Frame of our choice.
3. Look for a Directional signal to support our trade. Enter on the long side
accordingly.
While it was not specifically mentioned in our Directional Indicator
chapter, (you wouldn't have had the basis for it), a strong Confluence
area, particularly on a weekly or a monthly chart could be a Directional
signal on its own. This approach is a bit risky, unless the market is
oversold as in "Stretch." The way I employ this strategy is to wait for a
Confirmed Trend, in this case up, then employ one of the Fib tactic entry
signals we will cover in CHAPTER 13. A number of my students will
"Bonsai" into a Confluence area. I typically use either Minesweeper A
or B. My suggestion to you, is not to jump ahead now to see what these
tactics are. I think it's better for you to reread this section later and stay
with the chronology of the book.
IMPORTANT POINTS TO NOTE:
1. If you didn't precalculate these DiNapoli Levels on the monthly chart, you wouldn't
have any idea that support was about to manifest. The market was falling like a stone.
You should always study the higher Time Frame charts, so you know where you are in the
bigger picture.
2. If you look at the daily (not shown) in the vicinity of the first (highest) Fibnode shown
on Chart 9-7, you would have seen a nice playable rally.
3. On Chart 9-7, if you re-label 2 to A, 1 to C, and the high preceding 1 to B, F would
have been a near perfect OP.
4. There will be a much more compelling example of Confluence coming up later in
CHAPTER 11 involving the 500 point single day Dow decline. It's delayed until later
because it is a little more complicated. It involves more reaction lows and consequently
more Fibnodes. I realize it's best to learn to walk before we start to run.

=== PAGE 175 ===

Chapter 9 DiNapoli Levels 157
THE PROPORTIONAL DIVIDER:
Let's back up a little and talk about how to get DiNapoli Level markings placed properly
on a price chart without spending much money.
You can use a precision architectural tool called a proportional divider (precision ratio
compass):
The proportional divider3 is the least expensive way to properly pinpoint DiNapoli levels,
since it allows you to identify Fibnode locations and Lineage, quickly and easily. I do not
recommend the use of graphics (technical analysis) software4 to accomplish this task, since
you'll get a series of unidentifiable lines splayed across a chart. This type of presentation
will degrade your ability to confidently act on the information at hand.
If you want to use a computer to accomplish this, you have a couple of choices. With
enough talent, understanding of the concepts, and foresight of your trading needs in the
heat of battle, you may be able to adequately program a spread sheet. Otherwise our
FibNodes™ software produces a tabular printout with identifying characters. This
presentation accurately characterizes the type of Fibnodes you are encountering in current
market action. The characters act similarly to Lineage Markings. Using the software does
not dispense with the utility of the divider. A high-quality proportional divider is great to
have around. If you are trading intraday however, it is effectively impossible to accurately
keep up with things, without adequate software.
BOTTOM LINE: Use a divider and/or adequate software for best results!
3 Coast Investment Software, Inc. offers a high quality, wide span, lightweight proportional divider, along
with the Applications Manual which shows you how to properly use the divider. Dividers can sometimes
be located in architectural supply stores. There is a wide variety of these devices. Be careful which one
you purchase, not all are appropriate for use in this context!.
4 This prohibition goes for our own CIS graphics package which has a good Fibonacci graphics study. It
too however is inadequate for the trader to efficiently and accurately implement DiNapoli Levels.

=== PAGE 176 ===

 

=== PAGE 177 ===

CHAPTER
DiNapoli Levels™MULTIPLE FOCUS NUMBERS & MARKET SWINGS
Now that you have a firm foundation in my approach, it's time to progress to the next
level of difficulty. We'll begin this more advanced level of analysis with a Market Swing
that is very typical of what you will see occurring in the market place every day. See if
you can properly label the Focus Number(s) and Reaction Numbers on Chart 10-1, before
turning the page.
CHART 10-1

=== PAGE 178 ===

160 DiNapoli Levels
With the exception of points M and Q, does your labeling look like this?
CHART 10-2

=== PAGE 179 ===

Chapter 10 DiNapoli Levels Multiple Focus Numbers & Market Swings \ 61
Here's what the DiNapoli Levels would look like.
CHART 10-3
Even though point Q did not take out the high at M, the reaction low labeled '1', is still
significant and should be used to create DiNapoli Levels.
Notice there was a Confluence area 'K' formed between the .618 Node of Reaction 1 and
the .382 Node of Reaction 2. There could be no Confluence between the .382 Nodes
formed from Reactions 3 & 4, since they were both .382 Fibnodes. If the .382 Node off
Reaction 4 and the .618 Node off Reaction 3 were a bit closer, then we'd have another
area of Confluence 'K'.

=== PAGE 180 ===

162 DiNapoli Levels
MULTIPLE MARKET SWINGS:
Now let's look at a chart that has two Market Swings, one up, one down.
Can you properly label the Focus and Reaction Numbers on this chart?
CHART 10-4