

=== PAGE 41 ===

Chapter 2 Prerequisites, Ground Rules & Definitions 23
According to our definition of Trend, however, (Chart 2-
6), this is merely a reaction in an ongoing down Trend.
Perhaps you feel that given a longer data sample, you
could have subjectively determined the Trend accurately in
this case. Perhaps you could have. What about the next
chart? What about the self-doubt you may encounter in
the heat of action, and what about your ability to pull the
trigger?
I use two Trend indicators and only two. They are
Displaced Moving Averages and the MACD/Stochastic
combination. Without them, I will not attempt to comment
on the Trend.
My objective is to structure your thinking. One key to
making a good judgmental trading method is to make as
much of it as possible, non-judgmental.
CHART 2-6
When the market is going sideways, it is commonly said to be in congestion or without a
Trend. The way I define Trend leaves little room for the term "congestion." It takes no
leap of consciousness to see that congestion on a daily chart could be dramatically
trending in another Time Frame, e.g. the intraday world. In the daily Chart 2-7 we have
closing prices meandering above and below our Trend indicator. On the intraday Chart 2-
8, using an increased vertical range, and the same inputs for the DMA, we have a solid
Trend apparent. Unless there is some significant Movement in the market, I'm not
interested in trading. Boring, meandering markets don't interest me. If shortening the
Time Frame doesn't present a Trend, I simply stay away. Other methods that will help
you to define "congestion," if you have trouble grasping the concept, will be covered in
subsequent chapters.

=== PAGE 42 ===

24 DiNapoli Levels
DAY 1 DAY 2
DISPLACED MOVING AVERAGE ON A DAILY CHART
CHART 2-7
DISPLACED MOVING AVERAGE ON AN INTRADAY CHART
CHART 2-8

=== PAGE 43 ===

Chapter 2 Prerequisites, Ground Rules & Definitions 25
DIRECTION:
Direction is a concept, which like Trend, defines the Movement of the market, up or
down. It differs from Trend in two important and distinctive ways. Firstly, Direction
overrules Trend. That means if the Direction is up and the Trend is down, then the
subsequent move of the market is expected and assumed to be up. We would interact
with the market on that basis. Secondly, the criteria that determine Direction differ from
those which determine Trend. Let me restate this point since the use of the term can seem
confusing. Before reading this chapter, you had a concept of what the word Direction
meant. You could look at a chart and say the Direction is this or the Direction is that.
Forget your preconceived understanding of the word Direction. It will not serve you in
the context of this discussion.
When I speak of the Direction of the market, it will be specifically defined and the ensuing
price action should be highly predictable.
MOVEMENT:
The Movement of the market is a term encompassing Direction and/or Trend. One could
say the Movement is up because this or that Trend is up, or the Movement is expected to
be down because of this or that Directional Indicator. If the criteria is insufficient to make
a definitive statement about Trend or Direction, you cannot make a definitive statement
about Movement. Indicators or patterns do not directly define Movement. Only Trend or
Direction define Movement.
FAILURE:
Another term you may have to redefine, is my use of the word "Failure." If the market
experiences a Failure, it too will be specifically defined and subsequent market action
should be highly predictable. Your previous understanding or your definition of the word
Failure will not apply in this context. Failures are forms of Directional Indicators.
It is essential that you redefine some common terms, for in ten years of teaching traders, I
have not found a better way to express these concepts. The concepts need explicit
expression for thorough understanding.

=== PAGE 44 ===

26 DiNapoli Levels
CHART 2-9
What is the Trend?
Hyper Hank: Up, it's obvious, it's up! Let's buy it!
Diligent Dan: / don't know. You have defined how we determine Trend, but none of the
indicators you use are on the chart.
What's the Direction?
Hyper Hank: You 're nit-picking.
Diligent Dan: Same answer, don't know.
What's the Movement?
Hyper Hank: Come on guys, let's buy it before we miss out on the move!
Diligent Dan: Well, since Movement is dependent upon Trend or Direction, and since you
haven 7 given us the information to determine either of these on the chart, I guess I can't
say; but it sure looks like it's up.

=== PAGE 45 ===

Chapter 2 Prerequisites, Ground Rules & Definitions 2 7
LEADING INDICATORS:
A Leading Indicator is one that indicates, before the market gets there, where support or
' resistance is likely to manifest. These types of indicators are typically not taught. They
are certainly not used properly. Of those Leading Indicators that are available, there are
few that are of significant value. The two Leading Indicators I find to be excellent are
Fibonacci Retracement and Expansion Analysis, and a derivative of a Detrended Oscillator
I pioneered in the early 80s, the Oscillator Predictor™. An example of a Leading
Indicator that I do not find particularly useful, is time cycles derived directly from market
action. Others however, Walt Bressert, and Peter Eliades among them, have done some
excellent work on this subject. Some Leading Indicators that I find marginally useful are
astronomical (not astrological) dates and certain time forecasts derived from Fibonacci
counts. Those indicators, of course, do not predict support at a certain price, but rather
that support will manifest wherever the price happens to be, at a given time.
LAGGING INDICATORS:
A Lagging Indicator is one that requires market action before the indicator turns. It
confirms support or resistance rather than predicts it. In short, it lags market action.
Examples of Lagging Indicators are Displaced Moving Averages, Standard (non-
displaced) Moving Averages, Stochastics, RSI, Trend lines, etc. At the risk of confusing
the issue, it could be argued that certain of the above-mentioned indicators are coincident
indicators, i.e. they indicate not before, not after, but simultaneous to market action.
Understand that generally Leading Indicators are thought to be better than Lagging or
coincident indicators, since they give you warning or precognition that certain steps
should be taken. This is in contrast to confirmation that you should have done something
yesterday or 15 minutes ago. Proponents, or teachers, of certain of these Lagging
Indicators may see advantage in referring to them as Leading or coincident indicators to
achieve a higher, perceived status for them. The truth, as I see it, is that one should use
the best of both Leading and Lagging Indicators, and combine them in a way to achieve
greatest success.
Let's explore this idea a little more deeply. A reasonable case could be made that once a
Trend line is formed, it, too, is a Leading Indicator, i.e. from that point on, any approach
of price to that indicator could be viewed as potential support.

=== PAGE 46 ===

28 DiNapoli Levels
TREND LINE
CHART 2-10
The same can be said for the Trend containment capability of a Displaced Moving
Average.
POTENTIAL SUPPORT
CHART 2-11

=== PAGE 47 ===

Chapter 2 Prerequisites, Ground Rules & Definitions 29
Okay, a case could be made. But why turn an excellent Lagging Indicator into a fair
Leading Indicator as in the case of a DMA? Or why turn a fair Lagging Indicator (Trend
line) into a poor Leading Indicator when we can use the best of both?
We could get into more contradictions and semantics on the subject of Leading, Lagging,
and coincident indicators as an intellectual exercise, but that's not the purpose of this
book. We will have enough of a basis for an intelligent approach to what will follow so
I'll leave the topic here.
LOGICAL PROFIT OBJECTIVES:
A Logical Profit Objective is an area of price where one is likely to find significant
resistance to further Movement, e.g. significant orders placed against one's existing
position. It is not a place to necessarily reverse your position, and there's no guarantee
the market will stop its Movement if it gets there. Logical Profit Objectives are not price
projections. They are simply price points where the probability of continued price
Movement decreases substantially. Fibonacci Expansion Analysis creates price points
where one can take a logical profit if the market gets there. As long as the Trend or
Direction (Movement) is intact, they will be fulfilled. In a strongly running market, it is
likely all profit objectives will eventually be achieved, usually after tradable retracements.
It is not advisable or helpful to see these points as projections destined to be fulfilled.
TIME FRAME:
While there are essentially an infinite number of Time Frame charts one can use to trade, I
choose 5, 30, and 60 minute, daily, weekly, and monthly. Occasionally I'll look at 1 or 3
minute charts, but getting below a 5 minute chart is asking for trouble, since you begin to
butt heads with floor traders at those levels. As discussed earlier, the shorter the "world"
you live in, the better your brokerage and clearing services must be. The reason I don't
trade 7 or 19 minute charts, or a 25 minute Time Frame to "beat out" the 30 minute
players (an absurd concept) will be covered in CHAPTER 5 (The MACD/Stochastic
combination).
CONFIRMED AND UNCONFIRMED:
If all the evidence is in on a given signal, it is said to be Confirmed. If we are waiting for
some last piece of evidence the technical signal is Unconfirmed. An example of a
Confirmed signal would be the closing of a price above a given Moving Average. An
-example of an Unconfirmed signal would be that same signal prior to the close.

=== PAGE 48 ===

30 DiNapoli Levels
MISTAKE:
A Mistake occurs only when you go against your Trading Plan, when you do something
and you know better. A Mistake and a large loss may or may not occur simultaneously.
In fact Mistakes can sometimes produce significant gains. If your Trading Plan is poorly
defined, or you lack experience in the formulation of a Trading Plan, Mistakes will be hard
to define. With experience, your Trading Plan will take form and Mistakes will be
identifiable. It is critical to know when a large or small Mistake has been made, since the
number and extent of Mistakes you make is the best way you can judge your progress - or
lack of it.
TRADING WELL:
At certain times of the year we all do things better than at other times of the year.
Whether it's your golf game or the way you interact with others, it's critical to be able to
identify when things are flowing well. In golf, you can look at your score to get a measure
of how well you are doing. In trading it's more difficult. Today's evaluation of profit and
loss doesn't tell you much.
You are Trading Well when you are following your Trading Plan. A trader who does not
Trade Well is, by definition, making mistakes. If he does not take corrective action
according to his Trading Plan, he will never leave the game with profit on a consistent
basis. You can always change your Trading Plan if you don't realize acceptable profit, but
if you don't Trade Well, you are lost! Sell grapefruit, build houses, or remain retired.
Don't trade!
TRADING PLAN:
A Trading Plan is a set of rules by which your trading is governed. They can be
formulated with some flexibility as in a judgmental trading approach, or with absolute
rigidity as in a non-judgmental trading approach. Even a judgmental approach should
contain as many rigid rules as possible, so you will know with near certainty when you are
Trading Well (not making mistakes) and when you are not.
SUMMARY:
Now we have the building blocks for our foundation. In CHAPTER 3, I'll put the
foundation firmly in place. All of the concepts taught in the remainder of this book will fit
within the confines of this structure.

=== PAGE 49 ===

CHAPTER 3
THE ESSENTIAL
COMPONENTSOF A SUCCESSFUL TRADING APPROACH
MY TRADING PLAN INCORPORATES THE KNOWLEDGE AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF:
1. MONEY AND SELF-MANAGEMENT
2. MARKET MECHANICS
3. TREND AND DIRECTIONAL ANALYSIS (LAGGING AND COINCIDENT INDICATORS)
4. OVERBOUGHT/OVERSOLD EVALUATION
5. MARKET ENTRY TECHNIQUES (LEADING INDICATORS)
6. MARKET EXIT TECHNIQUES (LEADING INDICATORS)
Let's take a closer look at each of these aspects individually and how they will be handled
in this book.

=== PAGE 50 ===

32 DiNapoli Levels
1. MONEY AND SELF MANAGEMENT
I've already alluded to certain critical self-management techniques in CHAPTER 1.
There's a lot more that you need to know1. In the reference section, I've made mention
of some alternative sources of information that may be useful to you. Finding good
material on market psychology will likely be easier than getting good, practical money
management material.
Regarding successful personality profiles, I can add to the above reference material that
successful traders are typically confident, self-made individuals, who can handle criticism
and loss without defensiveness. There is no room in their minds for jealousy, envy, or
emotional insecurity. It took me a long time to realize why nearly all my friends were
traders and why I like being around traders so much. I don't know a better way to put it
other than that they are real men and women. I'm not saying that traders must be perfect
individuals. I am saying that the demands of this business substantially exceed those of
other endeavors. If you suffer significantly from any of the personality flaws mentioned
above, first iron out those flaws, then learn about trading specifics.
In any discussion of personal management and significant amounts of money, I guess it
would be fair to comment on the people you'll run into as a part of your trading
experience. We all know that there are thieves and unscrupulous individuals in any field.
Such individuals exist in this business as well. I can honestly say, however, that in almost
30 years in and around this industry, I've run into only two. One has been indicted and
the other is likely to be at some point. Those thieves that exist on the floor are
straightened out by their (floor) colleagues. The motivation to clean things up is not
moral, it's practical. There is only so much money to go around. If someone consistently
gets too much of it unscrupulously, the others perceive this person as a pariah and find
very effective ways to rid themselves of his presence.
1 The FIBONACCI, MONEY MANAGEMENT, AND TREND ANALYSIS, in home trading course
delves into the personality profile of successful traders. This portion of the taped discussion is
approximately three hours long. It examines each aspect of successful thinking. More time is spent
thoroughly covering money management techniques, an understanding of ruin (gambling) theory, as well
as aberrant runs. The course explains how to handle margin during winning periods and losing periods.
It discusses positive and negative expectation games and how your trading is defined by the nature of the
methodology you are using. There is also a section that contains more basic information on how to open a
futures trading account, how to choose a broker, and so on. Since these topics are well documented and
thoroughly covered, they will not be repeated here. The appropriate audio portions referenced above,
along with sections of the accompanying manual may be broken out of the full course. This way no one
will feel forced into buying material that is perceived to be redundant.

=== PAGE 51 ===

Chapter 3 The Essential Components 3 3
2. MARKET MECHANICS:
I'm talking here about an understanding of the floor, of the actors on the floor, of order
entry, floor rules, and practical issues...X'd trades for example2.
If you were in the auto wholesale business and you didn't understand the insurance
companies, the auctions, the dealers, the mechanics of the sealed bid, and such, how far
would you get? If you were into real estate and you didn't understand the mechanics of
financing and escrow procedures, how far would you get?
I run into traders all the time who know nothing about the floor, yet they use the floor six
times a day trying to make money. Wake up! You need a reality check! Know the
mechanics behind the business at which you are attempting to make a living.
In private seminars, I stress the importance of pit knowledge. I tell my students to get on
the floor of the S&P for at least six hours. I want their legs to ache and I want them to
see pit traders get spit on, trampled, and possibly even get into fights. I want them to feel
the disappointment of the local who can't get an order off to close his profitable three-tick
trade. I want my students to see the frustration of "out trades" in the making. Trading is
a tough, risk management business. How can you manage a risk you are unaware of?
How can you dispel misconceptions without experience? Floor traders are your
colleagues. You do yourself a disservice when you make them your enemy.
What if you're not an intraday trader? That's fine. You don't need to know anywhere
near as much about the pit as someone who trades intraday. You do, however, need to
know more than 90% of the people out there who think they are going to pay their bills
out of their trading profits. You need to dispel misconceptions that act as a crutch for
impractical behavior.
This is a hot topic for me. When I designed my FIBONACCI, MONEY MANAGEMENT,
AND TREND ANALYSIS in home trading course in 1988, I thought I had given the
prospective trader everything he needed to get the job done. By relating a variety of
personal experiences, I addressed this issue, but only so much could be done in a two-day
workshop. I realized more needed to be done and I will endeavor to fill this void at some
point in the future. I have identified the people I wish to have participate in such a work,
but so far I have not been able to convince them to help me on this project. I will make
constructive and appropriate reference to aspects of floor mechanics as we progress in this
book. However I strongly recommend that you make it your business to seek out and
befriend experienced traders, both on and off the floor. Once you have gained their trust,
2 Joe DiNapoli, "THE X'D TRADE (or Where's My Fill?)," Technical Analysis of Stocks & Commodities
magazine, March 1995, page 88.

=== PAGE 52 ===

34 DiNapoli Levels
they will freely discuss the anatomy of the floor and you will be rewarded for your efforts
throughout your trading career.
I hope you are not unduly disappointed with references to other sources of information
regarding items one and two above. Be sure you check the bibliography and reference
sections. The rest of the trading approach is fully and explicitly covered in the following
pages.
3. TREND AND DIRECTIONAL ANALYSIS
CHAPTERS 4, 5, & 6
4. OVERBOUGHT AND OVERSOLD EVALUATION
CHAPTER 7
5. MARKET ENTRY TECHNIQUES (LEADING INDICATORS)
CHAPTERS 8, 9, 10, 11 & 13
6. MARKET EXIT TECHNIQUES (LEADING INDICATORS)
CHAPTERS 7, 8, 9, 10, & 11
IMPORTANT POINTS TO NOTE:
While it is not a formalized part of my Trading Plan, I strongly recommend you complete
trade evaluation summaries. This consists of a written evaluation or self-evaluation
"diary", which enables you to gain perspective and reinforce the concept of Trading Well.
The remaining chapters of the book will deal with implementation of my Trading Plan,
using a variety of specific examples.

=== PAGE 53 ===

SECTION 2
CONTEXT
When I get into an aircraft, I like to see some gray hair on the Captain. It gives me
confidence and puts a smile on my face as I settle down to my first drink. My assumption
is that he's been around a while and likely to have seen some spooky times. It's no
different with trading. The egotistical traders among us might hide the Grecian
Formula®, but the experience is still there. We juggle dynamite when we trade futures.
While a trader could certainly use the concepts taught in this book to enhance his
magnesium-like glow, the purpose of this book is rather to allow a trader to profitably
survive. Longevity in this arena tells you who's made the grade.
By scrupulously identifying the CONTEXT of your trade, you know up front your
risk/reward criteria. You know up front whether or not you wish to participate in a given
trade or wait for the next opportunity which is always just around the corner.
Remember...
Loss of opportunity is preferable to loss of capital!

=== PAGE 54 ===

 

=== PAGE 55 ===

CHAPTER
TREND ANALYSISDISPLACED MOVING AVERAGES
GENERAL DISCUSSION:
There are many types and varieties of Trend delineation techniques. Trend lines and
Moving Averages are among the most commonly used. There are also Displaced Moving
Averages, Moving Average Bands, Deviation Bands, MACD, RSI, Stochastics and so on.
There are almost as many ways of defining "Trend" as there are traders. One of my better
students (Ed Moore) uses Fibonacci techniques to define "Trend." In inexperienced
hands this could be a way to turn a great Leading Indicator into a poor Lagging Indicator.
In Ed Moore's case, there's enough experience to draw from to make this transition
useful. Another old time pro I know simply looks at price either above or below the
open, to establish an up or down Trend respectively. While I like the simplicity of this
technique, I think there's a real lack of quality in this method.
I use two specific methods for Trend delineation and only two. They are:
1. Displaced Moving Averages
2. The MACD/Stochastic combination.
In this chapter, we will limit the discussion to Displaced Moving Averages. The
MACD/Stochastic combination will be covered in CHAPTER 5. The more exotic
techniques for defining market Movement (up or down) are contained in CHAPTER 6,
Directional Indicators.

=== PAGE 56 ===

3 8 DiNapoli Levels
If you haven't fully understood the term "Trend" as defined in CHAPTER 2, please restudy
that section. If you are interested in how I came to use Displaced Moving Averages, you
may refer to CHAPTER 1.
DISPLACED MOVING AVERAGES
Displacing a Moving Average forward in time offers several significant advantages to the
trader.
1. It lets you know what the Trend delineation point or price number will be "N" number
of periods ahead of time. Knowing where this point is, ahead of time, helps you to plan
your market strategy.
2. By using the "proper" number of periods for calculation of the Moving Average and the
"proper" displacement amount, DMAs tend to reduce whipsaws and "cup" or contain
market action in ways that are very helpful to traders.
3. Certain DMAs are extremely useful in defining patterns, as shown in CHAPTER 6,
Directional Indicators.
After many years of research spent selecting the proper length and displacement amount, I
have arrived at three DMAs. They are:
- The 3 period simple Moving Average of the close, displaced forward three periods.
- The 7 period simple Moving Average of the close, displaced forward five periods.
- The 25 period simple Moving Average of the close, displaced forward five periods.
For brevity, they will be shown as follows:
3X3
7X5
25X5
The periods I use are Daily, Weekly, and Monthly. Quarterly and Yearly periods work
equally -well, but I seldom look at those Time Frames.
I've been teaching the use of DMAs for over 11 years. I've answered hundreds of
questions on the subject. Since the same questions come up time and again, I think it
would be useful to review them.

=== PAGE 57 ===

Chapter 4 Trend Analysis Displaced Moving Averages 39
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS:
What do you mean by "displaced forward in time" and how does this help reduce
whipsaws?
Rather than plotting a given Moving Average, calculated today, on today's date, you
simply plot the identical value at a different, later date, hence the term "displaced." The
displacement is on the time axis, not the price axis. For the visual learners among you, the
arrow in the following chart shows that the same Moving Average is simply placed
forward in time. All calculations remain identical. For the mathematical types, Appendix
A contains a table showing the calculations and where the respective values are placed.
CHART 4-1

=== PAGE 58 ===

40 DiNapoli Levels
The next Chart 4-2A, shows a mathematically weighted Moving Average, (i.e. various
"weights" given to different periods) plotted with no displacement. In other words, the
chart shows a standard weighted Moving Average. The number of periods or the
character of the weighting is not significant to the discussion.
Chart 4-2B shows the identical Moving Average displaced forward five days. The
displacement amount could have been two, three, 10, or minus 10 days, weeks, or months.
It is as if you took a piece of tracing paper that had only the Moving Average on it (no
price bars), and slid the Moving Average left or right horizontally the desired amount
(displacement).
Now, let's assume a basic Moving Average crossover, non-judgmental, always in the
market system, where one would buy on close above the MA and sell below it on close.
It's easy to see how many times one would have been whipsawed by the non-displaced
MA as opposed to the Displaced MA.
CHART 4-2A

=== PAGE 59 ===

Chapter 4 Trend Analysis Displaced Moving Averages 41
CHART 4-2B
For those of you who are attempting to build non-judgmental systems using Standard
Moving Averages, try this additional variable and see if you get better results.
ADVANCED COMMENTS:
As with most observations in this business, there's the obvious and the insidious advantage
to note. Obviously if you are whipsawed less often, you'll have a higher equity. Not so
obvious is the real life factor of continuing to play the game. By the time most traders
reached Q (for quit) as shown above in Chart 4-2A, they would have thrown in the towel
and gone back to system development. Of course, this occurs just before the most
profitable run on the chart. Point Q on Chart 4-2B has been relabeled to M for money
because that is what will be made. The real life truth is that a trader trading off of Chart
4-2B is much more likely to be there for the big gains that are to follow!

=== PAGE 60 ===

42 DiNapoli Levels
Even being whipsawed infrequently, as in Chart 4-3A, can leave an average trader with an
emotional excuse not to reenter. Look at the profit you would have missed if the whipsaw
in March gave you an excuse to stay out of the market.
CHART 4-3A
Wouldn't using a longer Moving Average period accomplish the same function of
preventing whipsaws and keeping you in the market?
Not really. Where a longer MA will likely provide fewer whipsaws, other properties
change as well. See Chart 4-3A. Note how the displaced MA and the non-displaced MA
approach one another when the market finally breaks. You maintain the same profit level,
point P.